!1|1 


'1:1'''-!'' 

w 

Ml;;.-' 


iiiiJiiiiilitiiii:. 


j'lihi.iiiil: 


UBRARY  OF  PRINCETON 


JUN     5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


BS  491  .M49  1898  v. 2 
Meyer,  F.  B.  1847-1929. 
Our  daily  homily 


I 


Our  Daily  Homily 

Vol.   II:     I    Samuel— Job 


THE 

COMPLETE  IVORKS 

OF 

REV. 
For 

F.   B.   MEYER,   B.A. 

complete    descriptive    list 

of  mr 

.    oMejyer's    writings,    see 

the  concluding  pages  of  this  vol- 

ume. 

oill    of  the  hooks    there 

named  will  he  sent,  post  free,  on 

receipt 

of  price. 

Our  Daily  Homily 


Volume  II :    I  Samuel- Job 


By  the   Rev. 

F.  B.  MEYER,  B.A. 


AUTHOR  OF 


The  Shepherd  Psalm,"  "  Old  Testament  Heroes," 
"Christian  Living,"  etc.,  etc. 


LIBRARY  OF  PRINCEl  ON 


UN      5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMII^ARY 


New  York      Chicago       Toronto 

Fleming    H.  Revell    Company 

Publishers  of  Evangelical  Literature 


Copyright,  1898 

BY 

Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


Well — What  are  ages  and  the  lapse  of  time 
Match'd  against  truths,  as  lasting  as  sublime  ? 
Can  length  of  years  on  God  Himself  exact  ? 
Or  make  that  fiction,  which  was  once  a  fact  ? 
No — marble  and  recording  brass  decay, 
And,  like  the  graver's  memory,  pass  away; 
The  works  of  man  inherit,  as  is  just. 
Their  author's  frailty,  and  return  to  dust, 
But  Truth  divine  forever  stands  secure, 
Its  head  is  guarded  as  its  base  is  sure ; 
Fix'd  in  the  rolling  flood  of  endless  years. 
The  pillar  of  the  eternal  plan  appears, 
The  raving  storm  and  dashing  wave  defies. 
Built  by  that  Architect  who  built  the  skies." 

COWPER. 


OUR  DAILY  HOMILY 


I  have  poured  out  my  soul  before  the  Lord. 

I  Saf?i  i.  75. 

HANNAH'S  soul  was  full  of  complaint  and 
grief,  which  flowed  over  into  her  face  and  made 
it  sorrowful.  But  when  she  had  poured  out  her 
soul  before  the  Lord,  emptying  out  all  its  bitter- 
ness, the  peace  of  God  took  the  place  of  her  soul- 
anguish,  she  went  her  way,  and  did  eat,  and  her 
countenance  was  no  more  sad.  What  a  glad  ex- 
change !  How  great  the  contrast !  How  much 
the  better  for  herself,  and  for  her  home ! 

Is  your  face  darkened  by  the  bitterness  of  your 
soul  ?  Perhaps  the  enemy  has  been  vexing  you 
sorely ;  or  there  is  an  unrealized  hope,  an  unful- 
filled purpose  in  your  life;  or,  perchance,  the 
Lord  seems  to  have  forgotten  you.  Poor  sufferer, 
there  is  nothing  for  it  but  to  pour  out  your  soul 
before  the  Lord.  Empty  out  its  contents  in  con- 
fession and  prayer,  God  knows  it  all ;  yet  tell 
Him,  as  if  He  knew  nothing.  *'  Ye  people,  pour 
out  your  hearts  before  Him.  God  is  a  refuge  for 
us."  *'In  everything,  by  prayer  and  supplica- 
tion make  your  requests  known  unto  God." 

As  we  pour  out  our  bitterness,  God  pours  in  His 
peace.  Weeping  goes  out  of  one  door  whilst  joy 
enters  at  another.  We  transmit  the  cup  of  tears 
to  the  Man  of  Sorrows,  and  He  hands  it  back  to 
us  filled  with  the  blessings  of  the  new  covenant. 
Some  day  you  will  come  to  the  spot  where  you 
wept  and  prayed,  bringing  your  offering  of  praise 
and  thanksgiving. 

1 


His  mother  7nade  him  a  little  coat. 

I  Sam.  ii.  ig. 

WHAT  happy  work  it  was  !  Those  nimble 
fingers  flew  along  the  seams,  because  love  inspired 
them.  All  her  woman's  art  and  wit  were  put  into 
the  garment,  her  one  idea  and  ambition  being  to 
make  something  which  should  be  not  only  useful, 
but  becoming.  Not  mothers  only,  but  fathers, 
are  always  making  little  coats  for  their  children, 
which  they  wear  long  years  after  a  material  fabric 
would  have  become  worn  out.  How  many  men 
and  women  are  wearing  to-day  the  coats  which 
their  parents  cut  out  and  made  for  them  long 
years  ago ! 

Habits  are  the  vesture  of  the  soul.  The  Apos- 
tle bade  his  converts  put  off  the  old  man,  "  which 
is  corrupt,  according  to  the  deceitful  lusts,"  and 
to  put  on  the  new  man  "  which  after  God  is 
created  in  righteousness  and  true  holiness"  ;  to 
put  off  anger,  wrath,  and  malice,  whilst  they  put 
on  mercy,  humility,  and  meekness.  What  words 
could  better  establish  the  fact  that  habits  are  (as 
the  name  indicates)  the  clothing  of  the  inner 
life?  Where  and  how  are  habits  formed ?  Not 
in  the  mid-passage  of  life,  but  at  its  dawn ;  not 
in  great  crises,  but  in  daily  circumstances ;  not 
in  life's  arena  but  in  the  home,  amid  the  sur- 
roundings of  earliest  childhood.  Oh  that  the 
spotless  robe  of  Christ's  righteousness  may  ever 
be  exhibited  before  those  with  whom  we  daily 
come  in  contact ! 

By  their  behavior  to  each  other  and  to  their 
children  ;  by  the  ordering  of  the  home-life ;  by 
their  actions,  more  than  by  their  words ;  by  the 
way  in  which  they  speak,  and  spend  their  leisure 
hours,  and  pray — men  and  women  are  making 
the  little  coats  which,  for  better  or  worse,  their 
children  wear  ever  after,  and  perhaps  pass  down 
to  after  generations. 


And  the  Lord  came,  and  stood,  and  called  as  at 
other  times f  Samuel ^  Samuel!  i  Sam.  in.  lo. 

SEE  the  urgency  of  God  !  Four  times  He 
came,  and  stood,  and  called.  Mark  how  He 
stands  at  the  door  to  knock.  At  first  He  was 
content  to  call  the  lad  once  by  name ;  but  after 
three  unsuccessful  attempts  to  attract  him  to 
Himself,  He  uttered  the  name  twice,  with  strong 
urgency  in  the  appeal,  Samuel  !  Samuel !  This 
has  been  called  God's  double  knock.  There  are 
seven  or  eight  of  these  double  knocks  in  Scrip- 
ture :  Simon,  Simon;  Saul,  Saul;  Abraham, 
Abraham. 

How  may  we  be  sure  of  a  Divine  call? 

We  may  know  God's  call  when  it  grows  in  in- 
tefisity. — If  an  impression  comes  into  your  soul, 
and  you  are  not  quite  sure  of  its  origin,  pray  over 
it ;  above  all,  act  on  it  so  far  as  possible,  follow 
in  the  direction  in  which  it  leads — and  as  you  lift 
up  your  soul  before  God,  it  will  wax  or  wane.  If 
it  wanes  at  all,  abandon  it.  If  it  waxes,  follow 
it,  though  all  hell  attempt  to  stay  you. 

We  may  test  God's  call  by  the  assistance  of 
godly  friends. — The  aged  Eli  perceived  that  the 
Lord  had  called  the  child,  and  gave  him  good 
advice  as  to  the  manner  in  which  he  should  re- 
spond to  it.  Our  special  gifts  and  the  drift  of 
our  circumstances  will  also  assuredly  concur  in 
one  of  God's  calls. 

We  may  test  God's  call  by  its  effect  on  us. — 
Does  it  lead  to  self-denial  ?  Does  it  induce  us  to 
leave  the  comfortable  bed  and  step  into  the  cold  ? 
Does  it  drive  us  forth  to  minister  to  others?  Does 
it  make  us  more  unselfish,  loving,  tender,  modest, 
humble?  Whatever  is  to  the  humbling  of  our 
pride,  and  the  glory  of  God,  may  be  truly  deemed 
God's  call.  Be  quick  to  respond,  and  fearlessly 
deliver  the  message  the  Lord  has  given  you. 
3 


Let  ns  fetch  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant  of  the  Lord. 

I  Sam.  iv.  J. 

ISRAEL  had  been  defeated  with  great  loss. 
Their  only  hope  of  being  able  to  hold  their  own 
against  the  Philistines  and  the  people  of  the  land 
was  in  the  protection  and  help  vouchsafed  to  them 
by  God.  They  knew  this,  and  thought  that  they 
would  be  secured,  if  only  the  Ark  of  the  cove- 
nant were  on  the  field.  They  forgot  that  it  was 
only  the  material  symbol  of  a  spiritual  relation- 
ship; that  it  was  useless  unless  that  relationship 
was  in  living  force ;  and  that  the  bending  forms 
of  the  cherubim,  emblematic  of  the  Divine  pro- 
tection, would  not  avail  if  their  fellowship  with 
the  God  of  the  cherubim  had  been  ruptured  by 
blacksliding. 

There  is  a  sense  in  which  we  are  always  send- 
ing for  the  Ark.  The  reliance  on  outward  rites, 
such  as  baptism  and  the  Lord's  Supper,  on  the 
part  of  those  who  are  alienated  from  the  life  of 
God ;  the  maintenance  of  the  forms  of  prayer 
and  Scripture-reading  which  no  longer  express 
the  passionate  love  of  the  soul ;  the  habit  of 
church-going,  which  so  many  practice,  not  be- 
cause they  love  God,  but  because  they  think  that 
it  will  in  some  way  secure  His  alliance  in  life's 
battle — all  these  are  forms  in  which  we  still  fetch 
the  Ark  of  the  covenant,  whilst  our  hearts  are 
wrong  with  the  God  of  the  covenant. 

It  should  never  be  forgotten  that  nothing  can 
afford  to  us  protection  and  succor  but  vital  union 
with  Christ.  We  must  hide  in  His  secret  place  if 
we  would  abide  under  His  shadow.  We  must 
dwell  in  the  most  holy  place  if  we  would  be 
shadowed  by  the  wings  of  the  Shekinah.  There 
must  be  nothing  between  us  and  God,  if  we  are 
to  walk  together,  and  enjoy  fellowship  with  the 
Father,  and  with  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ. 


Dagon  7vas  fallen  np07i  his  face  to  the  earth  be- 
fore the  Ark  of  the  Lord.  i  Sam.  v.  j. 

THE  idols  of  the  heathen  represent  demons 
who  are  their  accepted  gods,  just  as  the  Ark  was 
the  symbol  of  the  presence  of  Jehovah.  In  the 
one  case  there  was  a  material  representation  of 
the  demon  ;  but  in  the  case  of  the  Ark  there 
was  only  a  throne,  the  Mercy  Seat ;  and  no  at- 
tempt was  made  to  represent  the  appearance  of 
the  God  of  Israel.  When  placed  in  the  Holy  of 
Holies,  the  Shekinah  shone  between  the  cheru- 
bim ;  this  alone  spoke  of  the  Divine  Spirit  who 
filled  the  apparently  vacant  throne.  When  the 
effigy  of  the  fish-god  was  confronted  by  the 
Sacred  Ark,  it  was  as  though  the  demon  spirit 
and  the  Divine  Spirit  had  come  into  contact, 
with  the  inevitable  result  that  the  inferiority  of 
the  one  ensured  the  crash  of  its  effigy  to  the 
ground. 

What  a  lesson  this  must  have  been  to  the 
Philistines — similar  to  that  given  Pharaoh  in  the 
plagues  of  Egypt,  and  with  the  same  object  of 
leading  them  to  see  the  superior  greatness  of 
Jehovah !  How  great  the  encouragement  to 
Israel — to  know  that  God  could  defend  His  su- 
periority !  And  how  striking  the  prognostica- 
tion for  the  future,  when  all  the  Dagons  of  the 
world  shall  be  broken  before  the  symbol  of  Di- 
vine power  and  love  ! 

Bring  the  Ark  of  God  into  your  life.  Set  it 
down  in  your  heart,  and  forthwith  the  Dagons 
which  have  held  sway  for  so  long  will  one  after 
another  succumb.  "The  idols  He  will  utterly 
abolish."  Let  Christ  in — that  is  the  one  need  of 
the  soul ;  and  let  Him  take  full  possession  of  you. 
Then  He  will  do  His  own  work.  Darkness  can- 
not abide  light ;  nor  the  defilement  of  the  Augean 
stable  the  turning  in  of  the  water  of  the  river. 


And  the  kine  went  along  the  highway ^  lowing  as 
they  went.  i  Sam.  vi.  12. 

THAT  two  milch  kine  which  had  never  borne 
the  yoke  should  move  quietly  along  the  high 
road,  turning  neither  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left, 
and  lowing  for  the  calves  they  had  left  behind, 
clearly  indicated  that  they  were  possessed  and 
guided  by  some  mysterious  power,  which  we 
know  to  have  been  God's.  And  if  He  were  able 
thus  to  overpower  tlie  instincts  of  their  nature, 
and  to  compel  them  to  do  His  will,  may  we  not 
infer  that  all  circumstances,  and  all  men,  how- 
ever unwittingly,  and  against  their  natural  instinct, 
are  subserving  the  purposes  of  His  will,  and  bearing 
on  the  Ark  ?  The  fish  yields  the  tribute  money  ; 
the  colt  of  the  ass  waits  where  two  ways  meet  to 
bear  the  Redeemer ;  the  man  with  the  waterpot 
leads  to  the  upper  room ;  the  Roman  soldiers  en- 
able Paul  to  fulfill  the  mission  of  his  life,  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  without  hindrance  in  the 
very  heart  of  Rome. 

As  we  go  forth  into  the  world,  let  us  believe 
that  the  movement  of  all  things  is  toward  the  ac- 
complishment of  God's  purpose.  Herein  is  a 
fulfillment  of  the  Psalmist's  prediction  about 
man,  which  can  only  be  perfectly  fulfilled  in 
Jesus  Christ,  the  second  Adam — that  all  things 
are  under  His  feet,  all  slieep  and  oxen,  yea,  and 
the  beasts  of  the  field.  Everything  serves  Christ 
and  those  who  serve  Christ.  In  a  true  sense  all 
things  are  ours;  they  minister  to  us,  even  as 
Christ  to  God. 

And  against  our  natural  inclinations  let  us  al- 
ways regard  the  claims  of  God  as  paramount ; 
and  dare  to  go  His  way,  though  our  heart  pines 
for  those  we  leave  behind.  "He  that  loveth 
father  or  mother,  son  or  daughter,  more  than  Me, 
is  not  worthy  of  Me." 


Cease  not  to  cry  unto  the  Lord  our  God. 

I  Sam.  vii.  8. 

SAMUEL  was  famous  for  his  prayers.  They 
are  repeatedly  referred  to  in  the  brief  record  of 
his  life.  In  the  Psalms  he  is  spoken  of  as  the 
one'*  who  called  upon  God's  name."  Indeed, 
he  fought  and  won  Israel's  battles  by  his  strong 
intercessions.  Mary  of  Scots  said  that  she 
dreaded  the  prayers  of  John  Knox  more  than  the 
battalions  of  the  King  of  France.  So  his  peo- 
ple were  accustomed  to  think  that  if  the  prophet's 
hands  were  held  out  in  importunate  prayer,  their 
foes  must  be  restrained. 

In  the  Life  of  Mr.  Reginald  Radcliffe,  one 
who  contributes  a  reminiscence  interjects  a  re- 
mark which  deserves  to  be  carefully  pondered  : — 
"The  great  secret  of  the  blessing  which  came 
from  God  to  the  awakening  of  whole  districts, 
the  quickening  of  Christians,  and  the  salvation 
of  multitudes,  was  prayer,  continued,  fervent, 
believing,  expectant.  There  was  never  anything 
striking  in  the  addresses ;  but  through  commun- 
ion with  the  living  Christ,  the  word  came  forth 
with  living  and  life-giving  power.  Often  would 
the  forenoon  be  spent  in  continuous  prayer." 
This  may  well  convict  some  of  us  of  the  cause  of 
our  failure.  We  have  expected  the  Lord  to 
thunder  and  discomfort  our  Philistines,  and  with 
a  great  deliverance ;  but  we  have  ceased  to  cry 
unto  the  Lord. 

Ye  that  are  the  Lord's  remembrancers,  cease 
not  to  cry  unto  Him.  If  the  judge  avenged  the 
unfortunate  widow,  shall  not  God  avenge  His  own 
elect,  who  cry  day  and  night?  It  is  recorded  of 
our  Lord  that  He  prayed  early  and  late,  and  all 
night.  He  prayed  when  He  was  about  to  be 
transfigured;  for  His  disciples;  in  the  Garden  of 
Gethsemane ;  and  for  His  murderers.  How  much 
more  do  we  need  to  "  pray  without  ceasing  "  ! 


But    the    thing    displeased   Samuel.   .   .   .  And 
Samuel  prayed  unto  the  Lord.  i  Sam.  viii.  6. 

A  LITTLE  further  down  in  the  chapter  we 
learn  that  Samuel  rehearsed  the  words  of  the  peo- 
ple unto  the  Lord.  His  prayer,  to  a  large  ex- 
tent, was  a  rehearsal  of  all  the  strong  and  unkind 
things  that  the  people  had  said  to  him ;  and  in 
this  way  he  passed  them  off  his  mind,  and  found 
relief.  There  is  a  suggestion  of  close  communion 
with  God  in  the  expression,  "  He  rehearsed  them 
in  the  ears  of  the  Lord."  It  had  been  the  habit 
of  his  life  to  be  on  intimate  terms  with  his  God. 

Things  do  not  always  turn  out  as  we  had 
hoped,  and  we  get  displeased  for  our  own  sakes 
and  God's.  We  had  planned  in  one  direction, 
but  events  have  issued  in  another ;  and  the  re- 
sults have  threatened  to  become  disastrous. 
There  is  but  one  resource.  If  we  allow  vexations 
to  eat  into  our  heart,  they  will  corrode  and  injure 
it.  We  must  rehearse  them  to  God — spreading 
the  letter  before  Him  as  Hezekiah  did ;  making 
request  like  Paul ;  crying  like  Samuel. 

Surely  it  is  the  mistake  of  our  life,  that  we 
carry  our  burdens  instead  of  handing  them  over ; 
that  we  worry  instead  of  trusting ;  that  we  pray 
so  little.  The  grass  grows  thick  on  the  pathway 
to  our  oratory;  the  cobwebs  hang  across  the 
doorway.  The  time  we  spend  in  prayer  is  per- 
haps better  spent  than  in  any  other  way.  It  was 
whilst  Samuel  prayed  thus,  that  he  saw  the  Divine 
programme  for  Israel : 

«*And  he  who  at  the  sixth  hour  sought 

The  lone  house-top  to  pray, 
There  gained  a  sight  beyond  his  thought — ^ 

The  dawn  of  Gentile  day. 
Then  reckon  not,  when  perils  lour, 

The  time  of  prayer  misspent; 
Nor  meanest  chance,  nor  place,  nor  hour, 

Without  its  heavenward  bent." 

8 


Behold^  there  is  in  this  city  a  man  of  God. 

J  Sam,  ix.  6. 

THERE  is  a  street  in  London,  near  St.  Paul's, 
which  I  never  traverse  without  very  peculiar  feel- 
ings. It  is  Godliman  Street.  Evidently  the 
name  is  a  corruption  of  godly  man.  Did  some 
saint  of  God  once  live  here,  whose  life  was  so 
holy  as  to  give  a  sweet  savor  to  the  very  street  in 
which  he  dwelt?  Were  the  neighbors  who 
knew  him  best,  the  most  sure  of  his  godliness? 
Would  that  our  piety  might  leave  its  mark  on  our 
neighborhoods,  and  the  memory  linger  long 
after  we  have  passed  away  ! 

A  generation  or  two  ago  in  the  Highlands, 
there  were  earnest  and  holy  men  who  were  known 
by  the  significant  title  of  the  men.  No  great  re- 
ligious gathering  was  deemed  complete  without 
them.  Their  prayers  and  exhortations  were  ac- 
companied by  an  especial  unction. 

In  such  manner  Samuel's  godliness  was  recog- 
nized far  and  wide.  The  fragrance  of  his  char- 
acter could  not  be  concealed.  And  this  gave 
men  confidence  in  him.  They  said,  "  He  is  an 
honorable  man ;  all  that  he  saith  cometh  surely 
to  pass."  How  much  credit  redounds  to  godli- 
ness, when  it  is  combined  with  trustworthiness 
and  high  credit  amongst  our  fellows  1 

Let  us  seek  to  be  God's  men  and  women.  Let 
us  live  not  only  soberly  and  righteously,  but 
godly,  in  this  present  world.  Let  us  remember 
that  God  hath  set  apart  the  godly  for  Himself. 
The  godly  are  the  godlike.  They  become  so  by 
cultivating  the  fellowship  and  friendship  of  God. 
Their  faces  become  enlightened  with  His  beauty  ; 
their  words  are  weighty  with  His  truth.  After 
being  for  a  little  in  their  company,  you  detect  the 
gravity,  serenity,  gentleness,  beauty  of  holiness, 
which  are  the  court  manners  of  heaven. 


Thou  shall  do  as  occasion  serve  Ihee. 

I  Sam.  X.  7. 

THIS  is  an  example  of  how  God  demands  of 
us  the  use  of  our  sanctified  common-sense. 
Samuel  sketches  to  Saul  the  course  of  events  dur- 
ing the  next  few  days ;  showing  how  clearly  our 
lives  lie  naked  and  open  to  the  eyes  of  God,  and 
how  easily  He  can  reveal  them  when  necessary. 
But  whilst  the  various  incidents  are  told,  the 
prophet  does  not  feel  it  incumbent  to  tell  this 
goodly  young  man  how  he  should  behave  in  any 
given  instance.  **  When  these  signs  are  come 
upon  thee,  thou  shalt  do  as  occasion  serve 
thee." 

We  are  reminded  of  a  parallel  in  the  life  of 
Peter.  The  angel  of  God  unbarred  the  prison- 
doors,  and  led  him  forth,  because  nothing  short 
of  Divine  power  would  avail.  He  led  the  dazed 
Apostle  through  one  street,  because  he  was  too 
bewildered  to  realize  what  had  happened.  But, 
as  soon  as  the  night-air  had  brought  him  to  his 
senses,  the  angel  left  him  *'  to  consider  the  mat- 
ter"— to  use  his  own  judgment.  The  result  of 
which  was,  that  he  went  to  the  house  of  Mary. 

"One  of  the  divinest  of  our  faculties  is  the  judg- 
ment, before  which  the  reasons  for  and  against  a 
certain  course  of  action  must  be  adduced,  but 
with  which  the  ultimate  decision  lies.  It  is  a 
tendency  with  some  to  depreciate  the  use  of  this 
wonderful  power,  by  looking  for  signs  and  visions 
to  point  their  path.  This  is  a  profound  mistake. 
God  will  give  these  when  there  are  complications 
in  which  the  exercise  of  judgment  might  be  at 
fault ;  but  not  where  it  is  sufficient.  Where  no 
sign  is  given,  carefully  divest  yourself  of  selfish 
considerations,  weigh  the  pros  and  co?iSf  ask  for 
guidance,  dare  to  act ;  and  having  acted  in  faith, 
never  look  back  or  doubt. 


10 


Co7ne,  let  us  go  to  Gi/gal,  and  renew  the  Ki?ig- 
doui  there.  i  Sam.  xi.  14. 

IT  is  good  to  have  days  and  occasions  for  re- 
newing the  kingdom.  Already  Saul  had  been 
anointed  king.  It  was  a  recognized  matter  that 
he  should  inaugurate  the  days  of  the  kings,  as 
distinguished  from  those  of  the  judges.  But  his 
great  victory  at  Jabesh-Gilead  seems  to  have 
wrought  the  enthusiasm  of  the  people  to  the 
highest  pitch,  and  to  have  presented  a  great  op- 
portunity for  renewing  the  kingdom.  They  went 
to  Gilgal  to  do  this,  because  there,  on  the  first 
entrance  into  Canaan,  Israel  had  rolled  away  the 
reproach  of  uncircumcision,  which  symbolized 
their  lack  of  separation. 

Jesus  is  our  King.  The  Father  hath  anointed 
Him,  and  set  Him  on  His  holy  hill ;  and  we  have 
gladly  assented  to  the  appointment,  and  made 
Him  King.  But  sometimes  our  sense  of  loyalty 
and  devotion  w^anes.  Insensibly  we  drift  from 
our  strenuous  endeavor  to  act  always  as  His  de- 
voted subjects.  Therefore  we  need,  from  time  to 
time,  to  renew  the  kingdom,  and  reverently  make 
Him  King  before  the  Lord.  Go  over  the  old 
solemn  form  of  dedication ;  turn  to  the  yellow 
leaves  of  the  diary ;  bring  under  His  sceptre  any 
new  provinces  of  influence  that  have  been  ac- 
quired ;  tell  Him  how  glad  and  thankful  you  are 
to  live  only  for  Him.  Let  this  be  done  at  Gil- 
gal, the  place  of  circumcision  and  separation, 
with  the  Jordan  of  death  flowing  behind,  and  the 
Land  of  Promise  beckoning  in  front.  There  is  a 
sense  in  which  we  can  consecrate  ourselves  only 
once ;  but  we  can  renew  our  vows  often. 

Blessings  abound  where'er  He  reigns; 
The  prisoner  leaps  to  burst  his  chains ; 
The  weary  find  eternal  rest, 
And  all  the  sons  of  want  are  blest. 


11 


The  Lord  will  not  forsake  His  people  for  His 
great  Name' s  sake.  i  Sam.  xii.  22. 

THE  certainty  of  our  salvation  rests  on  the 
character  of  God.  Moses,  years  before,  had 
pleaded  that  God  could  not  afford  to  destroy  or 
forsake  Israel,  lest  the  Egyptians  and  others 
should  have  some  ground  for  saying  that  He  was 
not  able  to  carry  out  His  purpose,  or  that  He  was 
fickle  and  changeable.  ''What  wilt  Thou  do 
for  thy  great  Name?"  Samuel  uses  the  same 
argument.  We  also  may  avail  ourselves  of  it  for 
our  great  comfort. 

God  knew  what  we  should  be — how  weak  and 
frail  and  changeful — before  He  arrested  us  and 
brought  us  to  Himself.  Speaking  after  the  man- 
ner of  men,  we  might  say  He  counted  the  cost. 
He  computed  whether  His  resources  were  suffi- 
cient to  secure  us  from  our  foes,  keep  us  from 
falling,  and  present  us  faultless  before  the  pres- 
ence of  His  glory  with  exceeding  joy.  He  fore- 
knew how  much  forbearance,  pity,  consolation, 
and  tenderness,  we  should  require.  And  yet  it 
pleased  Him  to  make  us  His  people.  He  cannot, 
therefore,  now  run  back  from  His  purpose ;  other- 
wise it  would  seem  that  difficulties  had  arisen 
which  either  He  had  not  anticipated,  or  was  not 
so  well  able  to  combat  as  He  had  thought.  What 
an  absurd  suggestion  !  In  the  former  case  there 
would  be  a  slur  on  His  omniscience ;  on  the  other, 
upon  His  omnipotence. 

*'What  if  God  should  cast  you  into  hell?" 
was  asked  of  an  old  Scotchwoman.  "Well," 
she  answered,  "If  He  do,  all  I  can  say  is,  He 
will  lose  mair  than  I  will." 

The  gracious  promise  given  to  Joshua  may  be 
appropriated  by  every  trembling  saint  of  God  : 
"  I  will  never  leave  thee  nor  forsake  thee."  And 
to  the  poor  and  needy  He  says,  "I  the  God  of 
Israel  will  not  forsake  them." 

12 


I  forced  myse/fy  there/ore,  and  offered  a  burnt- 
offering.  I  Sam.  xiii.  12. 

THIS  was  wholly  outside  Saul's  province. 
Samuel  had  engaged  to  arrive  within  the  seven 
days :  they  had  nearly  expired,  and  still  there 
were  no  signs  of  the  prophet;  and  Saul,  yield- 
ing to  the  promptings  of  his  impetuous  nature, 
took  the  matter  into  his  own  hand,  and  rashly 
assumed  an  office  to  which  he  had  no  right.  He 
protested  that  he  had  been  very  unwilling  to  add 
the  function  of  priest  to  that  of  king.  But  this 
was  notoriously  contrary  to  the  truth.  For  some 
time  he  had  chafed  against  Samuel's  prerogative, 
and  now  sought  to  supersede  the  Divine  order. 

It  seemed  but  a  small  act,  and,  to  superficial 
judgment,  not  enough  to  warrant  the  loss  of  his 
kingdom  ;  but  it  was  symtomatic  of  a  great  moral 
deficiency.  He  had  not  learned  to  obey  the 
commandment  of  the  Lord  :  how  could  he  rule  ? 
He  could  not  control  the  hasty  suggestions  of  his 
own  nature,  in  favor  of  the  deliberate  movement 
of  the  Divine  order :  how  could  he  be  God's 
chosen  agent  ?  He  acted  on  the  showings  of  ex- 
pediency, rather  than  of  faith  :  how  could  he  be 
a  man  after  God's  own  heart?  The  restlessness 
and  haste  which  characterize  the  present  age  must 
not  be  allowed  to  affect  our  service  for  God  ;  for 
thereby  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  will  be  hin- 
dered rather  than  helped. 

We  must  learn  to  wait  for  God.  He  may  not 
come  till  the  allotted  time  has  almost  passed  ;  but 
He  will  come.  He  waits  for  the  exact  moment 
in  which  He  can  best  succor  you.  Not  till  pa- 
tience has  been  exercised,  but  before  it  has  given 
out.  In  the  meanwhile,  be  sure  that  your  safety 
is  secured  ;  He  will  see  to  it  that  the  Philistines 
shall  not  come  down  to  overwhelm  you. 


13 


His  eyes  were  enlightened. 

I.  Sam  xiv.  zy. 

THE  Pliilistines  were  in  full  flight.  The  Is- 
raelites followed  hard  at  their  heels  through  the 
wood.  It  was  there  that  tlie  honey  dropped  in 
rich  abundance  on  the  ground,  and  there  Jona- 
than tasted  a  little,  dipping  the  end  of  his  rod 
into  it.  It  made  all  the  difference  to  him,  ward- 
ing off  the  excessive  exhaustion  which  paralyzed 
the  rest  of  the  army. 

The  Word  of  God  is  sweeter  tha?i  the  honey- 
cojnb. — Luscious  to  the  sanctified  taste  ;  enlight- 
ening to  the  dimming  eyes;  strength-giving  to 
the  weary.  It  drops  in  abundance  to  the  ground, 
as  though  inviting  the  hand  of  the  Christian  war- 
rior or  wayfarer  to  take  it  freely.  If  there  is  no 
taste  for  the  written  Word,  it  may  be  assumed 
that  the  living  Word  has  not  been  enthroned  in 
the  heart ;  for  where  He  reigns  supreme,  there  is 
a  longing  for  the  food  which  alone  can  fit  us  for 
the  Christian  life. 

Where  we  cannot  take  much,  let  us  take  some. 
— There  was  not  time  for  Jonathan  to  sit  down 
and  take  his  fill.  He  could  only  catch  up  some 
as  he  hastily  passed  through  the  forest-glade  ;  but 
that  little  made  all  the  difference  to  him.  So,  in 
the  early  morning,  or  at  midday,  if  we  cannot 
fill  our  hearts  with  Scripture,  we  may  catch  up  a 
morsel,  which  will  minister  untold  refreshment, 
and  clear  our  spiritual  vision. 

We  specially  need  to  do  this  7uhen  flushed  with 
success. — Too  often,  when  we  have  had  success 
in  the  battles  of  the  Lord — a  good  time  in  preach- 
ing or  teaching — we  are  apt  to  congratulate  our- 
selves, and  suppose  that  we  can  live  on  the  emo- 
tions excited.  But,  probably,  there  is  no  time 
when  we  need  more  absolutely  to  turn  to  the 
Word  of  God.  In  victory,  as  in  defeat,  we  must 
be  fed  and  nourished. 

14 


To  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken 
than  the  fat  of  rams.  i  Sam.  xv.  22. 

THIS  is  a  great  principle,  which  is  repeatedly 
enforced  throughout  the  Bible.  Men  have  always 
been  apt  to  divorce  religion  and  morality,  and  to 
suppose  that  a  certain  tribute  of  sacrifice  to  God 
will  be  sufficient  compensation  for  notorious  evil- 
doing.  But  in  every  age  God's  servants  have 
protested  against  the  notion,  and  have  insisted, 
as  Samuel  did  with  Saul,  that  it  were  better  to 
obey,  although  there  should  be  no  spoil  from 
which  to  select  victims  for  sacrifice.  This  was 
Christ's  perpetual  protest  against  the  Pharisees. 

Let  the  Ritualist  beware. — There  is  a  grave 
fear  lest  extreme  attention  to  the  outward  rite 
may  be  accompanied  by  carelessness  to  the  inward 
temper.  When  the  outward  observance  is  the 
expression  of  the  attitude  of  the  soul,  it  is  to  be 
respected  even  by  those  of  us  who  feel  that  ex- 
cessive symbolism  is  hostile  to  the  devout  life; 
but  where  the  rite  takes  the  place  of  the  soul's 
devotion,  or  condones  a  lax  morality,  it  cannot 
be  too  sternly  deprecated.  Though  all  the  Levit- 
ical  rites  should  be  observed  without  flaw,  they 
could  not  compensate  for  the  persistent  neglect 
of  the  least  item  of  the  decalogue.  ''God  is  a 
Spirit ;  and  they  that  worship  Him  must  worship 
Him  in  spirit  and  in  truth." 

Let  tis  all  beware. — We  are  apt  to  make  sacri- 
fices of  time  and  money  and  energy  for  God,  and 
to  comfort  ourselves  with  the  reflection  that  such 
as  we  are  may  be  excused  if  in  small  lapses  of 
temper,  or  disposition,  we  come  short  of  the 
Divine  standard.  No;  it  cannot  pass  muster. 
One  sin  mastered,  one  temptation  resisted,  one 
duty  performed,  is  dearer  to  God  than  the  most 
costly  sacrifices  that  were  ever  piled  upon  the 
altar. 

15 


The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  upon  David  from 
that  day  forward.  i  Sam.  xvi.  13. 

WHAT  may  not  a  day  bring  forth  !  Here 
was  a  shepherd  lad,  summoned  hastily  from  his 
sheep,  and  anointed  king.  But  an  even  greater 
blessing  came  into  his  life  that  day,  for  he  was 
mightily  endued  with  the  Holy  Spirit.  Without 
doubt,  during  his  early  years  the  Spirit  of  God 
had  dwelt  within  him,  moulding  his  character, 
inditing  his  songs;  but,  henceforth,  the  Spirit 
was  to  abide  on  him,  as  a  Divine  unction. 

Why  should  not  this  day  witness  a  similar 
transformation  for  you ;  not  in  the  change  of 
earthly  position,  but  in  your  reception  of  the 
"power  from  on  high"  through  a  renewed  en- 
duement?  Why  should  not  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  come  mightily  upon  you  from  this  holy 
hour,  even  as  your  eyes  glance  down  this  page  ? 
Though  it  is  quite  possible  that  you  have  been 
empowered  once,  there  is  no  finality  in  God's 
bestowals;  the  apostles  were  filled  and  filled 
again  (Acts  ii.  and  iv.). 

The  age  of  Pentecost  in  which  we  live  is  dis- 
tinctly one  of  Divine  anointing.  It  awaits  all 
wlio  will  separate  themselves  to  God,  and  receive 
it  for  His  glory.  The  characteristic  preposition 
of  this  age  is  07i.  If  you  have  not  received 
power,  seek  it ;  he  that  seeketh  findeth  ;  nay,  re- 
ceive it — to  ask  is  to  get.  If  the  Master,  though 
begotten  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  forbore  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  and  bind  up  broken  hearts,  till  He 
had  been  anointed  as  the  Christ  by  the  Spirit, 
who  descended  on  Him  at  His  baptism;  how 
foolish  it  is  for  us,  who  were  born  in  sin,  to  at- 
tempt similar  work,  apart  from  similar  endue- 
ment  !  The  promise  to  each  child  of  God  is : 
"Ye  shall  receive  power  after  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  come  upon  you  ;  and  ye  shall  be  wit- 
nesses unto  Me  "  (Acts  i.  8). 

16 


The  armies  of  the  living  God. 

I  Sam,  xvii.  26^  j6. 

THIS  made  all  the  difference  between  David 
and  the  rest  of  the  camp.  To  Saul  and  his  sol- 
diers God  was  an  absentee — a  name,  but  little 
else.  They  believed  that  He  had  done  great 
things  for  His  people  in  the  past,  and  that  at  some 
future  time,  in  the  days  of  the  Messiah,  He  might 
be  expected  to  do  great  things  again  ;  but  no  one 
thought  of  Him  as  present.  Keenly  sensitive  to 
the  defiance  of  the  Philistine,  and  grieved  by  the 
apathy  of  his  people,  David,  on  the  other  hand, 
felt  that  God  was  alive.  He  had  lived  alone  with 
Him  in  the  solitude  of  the  hills,  till  God  had  be- 
come one  of  the  greatest  and  most  real  facts  of  his 
young  existence  ;  and  as  the  lad  went  to  and  fro 
among  the  armed  warriors,  he  was  sublimely  con- 
scious of  the  presence  of  the  living  God  amid  the 
clang  of  the  camp. 

This  is  what  we  need.  To  live  so  much  with 
God,  that  when  we  come  amongst  men,  whether 
in  the  bazaars  of  India  or  the  market-place  of  an 
English  town,  we  maybe  more  aware  of  His  over- 
shadowing presence  than  of  the  presence  or  ab- 
sence of  any  one.  Lo,  God  is  here  !  This  place 
is  hallowed  ground  I  But  none  can  realize  this  by 
the  act  of  the  will.  We  can  only  find  God  every- 
where when  we  carry  Him  everywhere.  The 
miner  sees  by  the  candle  he  carries  on  his  fore- 
head. 

Each  of  us  is  opposed  by  difficulties,  priva- 
tions, and  trials  of  different  sorts.  But  the  one 
answer  to  them  all  is  faith's  vision  of  the  Living 
God.  We  can  face  the  mightiest  foe  in  His  name. 
If  our  faith  can  but  make  Him  a  passage,  along 
which  He  shall  come,  there  is  no  Goliath  He  will 
not  quell ;  no  question  He  will  not  answer ;  no 
need  He  will  not  meet. 


17 


David  behaved  himself  wisely. 

I  Sam.  xviii.  5, 14^  i^^  30. 

THERE  must  be  some  strong  reason  for  the 
fourfold  repetition  of  this  phrase  in  so  short  a 
space.  It  is  as  though  tlie  Holy  Ghost  would  lay 
very  distinct  stress  on  the  Divine  prudence  and 
circumspection,  which  must  characterize  the  man 
whose  life  is  hid  in  God.  Let  us  walk  with  God, 
abiding  in  Him,  subjecting  our  thoughts  and 
plans  to  His,  communing  about  all  things  with 
Him,  talking  over  our  lives  with  Him,  before  we 
go  out  to  live  them  in  the  presence  of  our  fellows. 
Then  we  too  shall  have  this  gracious  wisdom, 
which  is  more  moral  than  intellectual — the  prod- 
uct of  the  grace  of  God  rather  than  of  human 
culture. 

Our  life  shall  commend  itself  to  men  (5). — 
David's  was  good  in  the  sight  of  all  the  people, 
and  more  wonderful  still,  in  the  sight  of  Saul's 
servants,  who  might  have  been  jealous.  A  life 
lived  in  God  disarms  jealousy  and  envy.  He 
who,  as  a  boy,  did  His  Father's  business  increased 
in  wisdom,  and  in  favor  with  God  and  men. 

Our  life  shall  rebuke  and  awe  our  foes  (15). — 
Saul  stood  in  awe  of  him.  When  traps  and 
snares  are  laid  for  us  we  shall  be  enabled  to 
thread  our  way  through  them  all,  as  Jesus  did 
when  they  tried  to  entangle  Him  in  His  talk. 
We  shall  have  a  wisdom  which  all  our  foes  to- 
gether shall  not  be  able  to  gainsay  or  resist. 

Our  name  will  be  precious  (30). — People  loved 
to  dwell  on  the  name  of  David  ;  it  was  much  set 
by;  they  noticed  and  were  impressed  with  the 
beauty  and  nobility  of  his  character.  We  must 
always  view  our  lives,  amusements,  and  undertak- 
ings, in  the  light  of  the  result  which  will  accrue 
to  Him  whose  name  it  is  our  privilege  to  bear. 
18 


And  Saul  hearkened  unto  the  voice  of  Jonathaii. 

I  Sam.  xix,  6. 

IT  was  a  noble  act  of  Jonathan.  He  might 
have  withdrawn  from  his  friendship  with  David 
when  it  threatened  his  relations  with  his  father; 
but,  instead,  he  stepped  into  the  breach,  and 
pleaded  for  his  friend,  endeavoring  to  eradicate 
the  false  and  ungenerous  conceptions  of  which 
Saul  had  become  possessed.  It  is  an  example  we 
do  well  to  study  and  copy.  For  his  love's  sake, 
as  well  as  for  his  father's,  he  was  extremely  eager 
to  effect  a  reconciliation  between  him  to  whom  he 
owed  allegiance  of  son  and  subject,  and  this  fair 
shepherd-minstrel-warrior,  who  had  so  recently 
cast  a  sunny  gleam  upon  his  life. 

Men  often  misconceive  of  one  another.  Jeal- 
ousy and  envy  distort  behavior  and  actions  which 
are  in  themselves  as  beautiful  as  possible.  Mis- 
representation will  blind  us  to  the  true  excellences 
of  one  another's  characters.  Wrong  construc- 
tions are  often  put  on  the  most  innocent  inci- 
dents. We  cannot  help  these  things,  they  are 
part  of  the  sad  heritage  of  the  Fall ;  but  we  may 
often  take  up  the  cause  of  a  misunderstood  man, 
and  at  the  risk  of  losing  our  own  reputation,  and 
diverting  to  ourselves  some  of  the  odium  which 
attaches  to  him,  we  may  stand  as  his  sponsors. 

Even  if  we  dislike  another,  as  Saul  did  David, 
let  us  give  scope  to  the  good  Spirit  to  plead  his 
cause  at  the  bar  of  our  hearts,  as  Jonathan  did 
for  his  friend.  Let  us  consider  all  the  kind  and 
loving  things  that  may  be  said  of  him  ;  let  us  put 
ourselves  in  his  position  ;  let  us  be  willing  to  be- 
lieve and  hope  all  things.  Let  us  plead  for 
others,  since  this  is  a  work  in  whicli  Christ's  fol- 
lowers most  closely  approximate  to  Him  who  ever 
liveth  to  intercede. 


19 


Thou  shalt  be  missed,  because  thy  seat  will  be 
empty.  j  Sam.  xx.  i8. 

JONATHAN  and  David  had  entered  into  a 
covenant,  each  loving  the  other  as  his  own  soul. 
Anxious  to  shield  his  friend  from  the  wrath  of  his 
father,  Jonathan  discloses  to  David  the  plan  by 
which  he  shall  know  how  matters  fared  in  the 
royal  palace.  David's  vacant  seat  suggests  a  les- 
son for  us. 

There  are  a  good  many  empty  seats  in  our 
houses.  Those  that  occupied  them  can  never  do 
so  again;  they  have  gone  never  to  return  again, 
and  we  miss  them  sorely. 

Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  do  not  leave  our  seats 
in  the  home  circle  needlessly  vacant.  Let  not 
the  mother  be  away  at  the  dance,  or  even  at  the 
religious  meeting,  when  she  should  be  at  home, 
joining  in  her  children's  evening  prayers.  Let 
the  father  be  very  sure  that  God  has  called  him 
elsewhere,  before  he  habitually  vacates  his  place 
in  the  evening  family  circle.  Let  each  of  us  avoid 
giving  needless  pain  to  those  we  love  by  leaving 
empty  seats.  But  if  God  calls  us  away  to  His 
service,  then  for  those  who  miss  us,  another  Form 
shall  glide  in,  and  sit  in  the  vacant  chair;  and 
they  will  become  conscious  that  the  Master  is  fill- 
ing the  gap,  and  beguiling  the  weary  moments. 

Above  all,  let  not  your  seat  be  empty  in  the 
house  of  God,  at  the  ordinary  service,  or  at  the 
Lord's  Table.  We  are  too  prone  to  allow  a  trifle 
to  deter  us  from  joining  in  the  sacred  feasts.  At 
such  times  we  are  missed,  our  empty  seat  wit- 
nesses against  us ;  there  is  a  lack  in  the  song  and 
prayer,  which  cries  out  against  us;  there  is  a  dis- 
tinct loss  to  the  power  of  the  service,  which  is  in 
proportion  to  the  number  of  earnest  souls  present. 
Oh  that  there  may  be  no  empty  seats  at  the  mar- 
riage supper,  vacated  through  our  unfaithfulness  ! 


20 


There  is  none  like  that;  give  it  me. 

I  Sam.  xxi.  g. 

WHAT  David  said  of  the  sword  of  Goliath 
we  may  say  of  Holy  Scripture — the  sword  of  the 
Spirit — "There  is  none  like  that." 

There  is  no  hook  like  the  Bible  for  those  con- 
vinced of  sin. — The  Word  of  God  assures  the  sin- 
ner of  God's  love  in  Christ,  whilst  it  refuses  to 
condone  a  single  sin,  or  excuse  one  shortcoming. 
The  Bible  is  as  stern  as  conscience  herself  against 
sin,  but  as  pitiful  as  the  heart  of  God  to  the  sin- 
ner. It,  moreover,  discloses  the  method  by  which 
the  just  God  becomes  the  justifier  of  those  who 
believe. 

There  is  no  book  like  the  Bible  for  the  sorrow- 
ful.— It  tells  of  the  Comforter;  it  reminds  us 
that  in  all  our  sorrow  God  also  is  sad ;  it  points 
to  the  perfect  plan  according  to  which  God  is 
working  out  our  blessedness;  it  insists  that  all 
things  are  working  togetlier  for  good;  it  opens 
tlie  vision  of  the  blessed  future,  where  all  the 
griefs  and  tears  of  men  shall  be  put  away  forever. 

There  is  7io  book  like  the  Bible  for  the  dying. — 
"Read  to  me,"  said  Sir  Walter  Scott,  on  his 
dying  bed,  to  his  friend.  "  What  shall  I  read  ?  " 
"  There  is  only  one  book  for  a  dying  man,"  was 
the  answer  ;  "read  to  me  from  the  Bible."  The 
Book  which  tells  of  the  Lord,  who  died  and  rose 
again  ;  of  the  mansions  which  He  has  gone  to 
prepare;  of  the  reunion  of  the  saints;  of  the 
fountains  of  water  of  life — is  the  only  pillow  on 
which  the  dying  head  can  rest  softly. 

In  these  days  of  debate  and  doubt  there  is  no 
such  evidence  for  the  Divine  authority  of  the 
Bible  as  that  which  accrues  from  its  perpetual 
use,  whether  in  our  own  life,  or  in  the  conviction 
of  the  ungodly. 

21 


Till  I  know  ivhat  God  ivill  do  for  me. 

J  Sam.  xxii.  j, 

WE  shall  never  get  to  the  end  of  all  that  God 
will  do  for  us,  if  only  we  perfectly  give  ourselves 
up  to  Him.  David  had  a  very  imperfect  vision 
of  all  that  was  in  God's  plan  for  him  ;  he  had  an 
inkling,  but  that  was  all.  And  we  have  still  less. 
Yet  let  us  recapitulate  some  of  the  things  which 
God  will  do  for  us. 

He  waits  to  give  ?/s  the  spirit  of  Sonship :  so 
that  we  may  ever  be  conscious  of  His  Fatherhood, 
and  look  up  into  His  face  in  the  garden  of  Geth- 
semane,  and  on  the  Mount  of  Transfiguration 
alike,  calling  Him  Abba,  Father. 

He  longs  to  lead  us  to  full  consecration ;  to 
lead  us  into  such  close  association  with  Jesus  in 
His  redeeming  purpose,  that  we  may  become  His 
willing  bond-servants,  with  no  other  purpose  and 
aim  in  life  than  His  service  and  glory. 

He  desires  to  deliver  us  from  all  known  sin  : 
that  we  may  be  blameless  and  harmless,  His  chil- 
dren without  rebuke  in  this  sinful  world,  who 
walk  before  Him  in  holiness  and  righteousness  all 
our  days. 

He  wants  to  anoint  us  with  the  Holy  Spirit :  so 
that  our  ministry  to  men  may  have  more  of  the 
savor  of  Christ ;  may  plough  deeper  furrows  in 
human  hearts;   may  have  more  abiding  results. 

He  desires  us  to  come  into  partnership  with  His 
Son — here  in  His  redemptive  purpose,  yonder  in 
His  throne.     To  this  indeed  He  calls  us. 

Who  can  know  all  that  God  waits  to  do,  not 
here  only,  but  yonder,  when  life  has  entered  upon 
its  eternal  stage!  ''Now  are  we  children  of 
God ;  and  it  is  not  yet  made  manifest  what  we 
shall  be"  (i  John  iii.  2,  R.  v.). 


22 


He  said  to  Abiathar  the  priest,  Bring  hither  the 
ephod,  I  Sam.  xxiii.  g, 

DAVID  was  passing  through  one  of  the  most 
awful  experiences  of  his  life,  when  his  men  spoke 
of  stoning  him  instead  of  taking  up  his  cause. 
How  many  times  in  this  chapter  we  are  informed 
that  David  inquired  of  the  Lord  !  Some  three  or 
four  times  the  appeal  for  direction  was  renewed, 
as  though  he  were  fearful  to  stir  one  step  by  the 
light  of  his  own  unaided  wisdom.  In  that  change- 
ful life  of  his,  it  must  have  been  extremely  diffi- 
cult to  set  the  Lord  always  before  him,  and  await 
Divine  direction.  Many  a  time  his  circumstances 
might  seem  to  demand  immediate  action  rather 
than  prayer;  and  the  rude  soldiery  must  have  in- 
sisted on  their  voice  being  heard  rather  than  a 
priest's ;  but  David  was  not  deterred  by  one  or 
the  other,  and  still  held  to  his  practice  of  con- 
sulting the  Urim  and  Thummim  stone,  set  in  tlie 
ephod  ;  which  was  probably  a  splendid  diamond, 
flashing  with  God's  distinct  ''Yes,"  or  growing 
cloudy  and  dark  with  His  definite  '♦  No." 

Let  us  inquire  of  the  Lord.  The  answer  will 
surely  come,  if  we  wait  for  it.  If  we  are  not  sure 
of  it,  let  us  still  wait,  for  it  will  come — not  so 
early  as  to  save  us  from  using  our  faith,  not  so 
late  as  to  permit  us  to  be  overwhelmed.  Direc- 
tion will  come  in  the  growing  conviction  of  duty, 
in  the  drift  of  circumstances,  in  the  advice  of 
friends,  in  the  perceptions  of  a  sanctified  judg- 
ment. None  that  wait  on  God  can  be  ashamed. 
Whether  our  duty  be  to  arise  and  pursue,  to  sit 
still,  or  to  escape — *'  the  meek  He  will  guide  in 
judgment;  the  meek  He  will  teach  His  way." 
He  gives  us  a  white  stone  in  which  a  name  is 
written,  which  only  they  know  who  receive. 


23 


And  David's  heart  stnote  him. 

I  Sam.  xxiv.  J. 
IT  is  well  to  have  a  tender  conscience,  and  to 
obey  its  least  monitions,  even  when  men  and 
things  militate  against  it.  Here  was  an  oppor- 
tunity for  David  and  his  band  to  end  their  wan- 
derings and  hardships  by  one  thrust  of  the  spear  ; 
but  though  it  was  a  very  small  thing  that  he  had 
done,  David  was  struck  with  remorse  for  having 
taken  advantage  of  Saul's  retirement  in  the  pre- 
cincts of  the  cave,  where  his  men  and  he  were 
hiding,  and  cut  off  a  piece  of  his  robe. 

//  was  a  trifling  matter ^  and  yet  it  seemed  dis- 
honoring to  God's  anointed  king;  and  as  such 
it  hurt  David  to  have  done  it.  We  sometimes  in 
conversation  and  criticism  cut  off  a  piece  of  a 
man's  character,  or  influence  for  good,  or  stand- 
ing in  the  esteem  of  others.  Ought  not  our 
heart  to  smite  us  for  such  thoughtless  conduct  ? 
Ought  we  not  to  make  confession  or  reparation  ? 

Circumstances  seeined  to  favor  it. — Of  all  the 
scores  of  caves  in  the  neighborhood,  the  king 
had  happened  to  choose  the  very  one,  in  the  dark 
recesses  of  which  David  and  his  men  were  shel- 
tering. What  more  natural  than  to  obtain  some 
token  to  convince  the  king  how  absolutely  he  had 
been  in  his  young  rival's  power?  But  favoring 
circumstances  do  not  justify  an  act  which  is  not 
perfectly  healthy  and  right.  Opportunity  does 
not  make  a  wrong  thing  right. 

His  men  unanimously  approved  the  act,  nay, 
they  wanted  him  to  go  further.  Their  standard 
was  a  very  low  one,  not  only  in  this  case,  but  in 
others.  How  wonderful  that  David  kept  such  a 
high  ideal  amid  such  comrades  I  We  shall  not 
be  judged  hereafter  by  the  standard  which  ob- 
tained among  our  comrades. 
24 


This  shall  be  no  grief  unto  thee. 

I  Sam.  XXV.  jr. 

THERE  was  an  inimitable  blending  of  wom- 
an's wit  with  worldly  prudence  in  the  words  of 
the  beautiful  Abigail.  Poor  woman,  she  had  had 
a  sorry  life  of  it,  mated  to  such  a  man  as  Nabal 
was !  An  ill-assorted  pair  certainly,  though 
probably  she  had  had  no  hand  in  bringing  about  the 
alliance.  Like  so  many  Eastern  women,  she  was 
the  creature  of  another's  act  and  choice.  But 
she  succeeded  in  averting  the  blow  which  David 
was  hasting  to  inflict,  by  asserting  her  belief  that 
the  time  was  not  far  distant  when  he  would  no 
longer  be  a  fugitive  from  his  foes,  and  by  sug- 
gesting that  when  that  happy  time  came  it  would 
be  a  relief  to  feel  that  he  had  not  allowed  himself 
to  be  carried  to  all  lengths  by  his  hot  passion. 

It  was  very  salutary  advice.  Let  us  always  look 
at  things  from  the  view-point  of  the  future,  when 
our  passion  shall  have  subsided,  when  time  shall 
have  cooled  us,  and  especially  when  we  review 
the  present  from  the  verge  of  the  other  world — 
how  then  ? 

We  can  well  afford  to  do  this  since  God  is 
with  us,  and  our  life  is  bound  up  with  Him  in 
the  bundle  of  life.  Abigail  reminded  David  that 
God  would  do  to  him  all  the  good  of  which  He 
had  spoken,  and  would  sling  out  his  enemies  as 
from  a  sling.  So  God  will  do  for  us ;  not  one 
good  thing  will  fail  of  all  that  He  hath  promised  ; 
no  weapon  that  is  formed  against  us  shall  prosper. 
Within  a  little,  Nabal  was  dead,  and  David's 
wrong  righted.  So  shall  the  evil  that  now 
molests  us  pass  away.  God  will  deal  with  it. 
Let  us  leave  it  to  Him  :  before  Him  mountains 
shall  melt  like  wax ;  and  we  shall  have  nothing 
to  regret. 


25 


Then  said  Saul,  I  have  sinned. 

J  Sajii.  xxvi.  21. 

THE  Apostle  makes  a  great  distinction,  and 
rightly,  between  the  sorrow  of  the  world  and  the 
sorrow  of  a  godly  repentance  which  needeth  not 
to  be  repented  of.  Certainly  Saul's  confession 
of  sin  belonged  to  the  former;  whilst  the  cry  of 
the  latter  comes  out  in  Psalm  li.,  extorted  from 
David  by  the  crimes  of  after  years. 

The  difference  between  the  two  may  be  briefly 
summarized  in  this,  that  the  one  counts  sin  a 
folly  and  regrets  its  consequences ;  whilst  the 
other  regards  sin  as  a  crime  done  against  the 
most  Holy  God,  and  regrets  the  pain  given  to 
Him.  "Against  Thee,  Thee  only,  have  I  sinned, 
and  done  this  evil  in  Thy  sight." 

Obviously  Saul's  confession  was  of  the  former 
description,  ''  I  have  played  the  fool."  He 
recognized  the  unkingliness  of  his  behavior, 
and  the  futility  of  his  efforts  against  David. 
But  he  stayed  there,  stopping  short  of  a  faithful 
recognition  of  his  position  in  the  sight  of  God, 
as  weighed  in  the  balances  of  eternal  justice. 

Many  a  time  in  Scripture  do  we  meet  with  this 
confession.  The  Prodigal,  Judas,  Pharaoh, 
David,  and  Saul,  uttered  it ;  but  in  what  differ- 
ing tones,  and  with  what  differing  motives ! 
We  need  to  winnow  our  words  before  God  \  not 
content  with  using  the  expressions  of  penitence, 
unless  we  are  very  sure  that  they  bear  the  mint- 
mark  of  heaven,  and  deserve  the  Master's  Beati- 
tude, "Blessed  are  they  that  morn,  for  they  shall 
be  comforted." 

When  sin  is  humbly  confessed,  the  Saviour  as- 
sures us:  "  Thy  sins,  which  are  many,  are  for- 
given thee  ;  go  in  peace."  **  If  we  confess  our 
sins,  He  is  faithful  and  just  to  forgive  us  our  sins, 
and  to  cleanse  us  from  all  unrighteousness." 


And  David  said,  J  shall  now  perish  one  day  by 
the  hand  of  Saul.  i  Sam.  xxvii.  i. 

WHAT  a  fit  of  despondency  and  unbelief  was 
here  !  We  can  hardly  believe  that  this  is  he  who 
in  so  many  Psalms  had  boasted  of  the  shepherd 
care  of  God,  who  had  so  often  insisted  on  the 
safety  of  God's  pavilion.  It  was  a  fainting  fit, 
brought  on  by  the  bad  air  he  had  breathed  amid 
the  evil  associations  of  Adullam's  cave.  Had 
not  God  promised  to  take  care  of  him?  Was 
not  his  future  already  guaranteed  by  the  promises 
that  he  should  succeed  to  the  kingdom  ?  But 
nothing  availed  to  check  his  precipitate  flight 
into  the  land  of  the  Philistines. 

Bitterly  he  rued  this  mistake.  The  prevarica- 
tion and  deceit  to  which  he  was  driven  ;  the  an- 
guish of  having  to  march  with  Achish  against 
his  own  people  ;  the  sack  and  burning  of  Ziklag  : 
these  were  the  price  he  had  to  pay  for  his  mis- 
trust. Unbelief  always  brings  many  other  bitter 
sorrows  in  its  train,  and  leads  the  soul  to  cry, 

«  How  long,  O  Lord  ?     Wilt  Thou  forget  me  forever  ? 
How  long  wilt  Thou  hide  thy  face  from  me  ?  " 

Let  us  beware  of  losing  heart,  as  David  did. 
Look  not  at  Saul,  but  at  God,  who  is  omnipo- 
tent ;  not  at  the  winds  and  waves,  but  at  Him 
who  walks  across  the  water;  not  at  what  may 
come,  but  at  that  which  is — for  the  glorious  Lord 
is  round  about  thee  to  deliver  thee.  He  shall  de- 
liver thy  soul  from  death,  thine  eyes  from  tears, 
and  thy  feet  from  falling.  He  that  has  helped 
will  help.  What  He  has  done,  He  will  do.  God 
always  works  from  less  to  more,  never  from  more 
to  less.  Dost  thou  not  hear — hast  thou  not 
heard — his  voice  saying,  I  will  never  leave  thee, 
nor  forsake  thee?  What,  then,  can  man  do  unto 
tliee  ?  Every  weapon  used  against  thee  shall  go 
blunt  on  an  invisible  shield  ! 
27 


Because  thou  obeyedst  not  the  voice  of  the  Lord, 
therefore  ...  i  Sam.  xxviii.  i8. 

THUS  unforgiven  sin  comes  back  to  a  man. 
We  cannot  explain  the  mysteries  that  lie  around 
this  incident ;  but  it  is  clear  that  in  that  supreme 
hour  of  Saul's  fate,  that  early  sin,  which  had 
never  been  confessed  and  put  away,  came  surging 
back  on  the  mind  and  heart  of  the  terror-stricken 
monarch.  "  Because  thou  obeyedst  not  the  voice 
of  the  Lord,  and  didst  not  execute  His  fierce 
wrath  upon  Amalek,  therefore  hath  the  Lord 
done  this  thing  unto  thee  this  day.  Moreover 
the  Lord  will  deliver  Israel  also  with  thee  into 
the  hands  of  the  Philistines"  (r.  v.).  But  Saul 
did  not  realize  that  even  then  the  gates  of  God's 
love  stood  open  to  him,  if  only  he  would  pass 
through  them  by  humble  penitence  and  faith.  If 
instead  of  applying  to  the  witch,  he  had  sought 
God's  mercy,  light  would  have  burst  on  his  dark- 
ened path,  and  he  had  never  perished  by  his  own 
hand  on  Mount  Gilboa. 

In  strong  contrast  with  this,  let  us  put  the  as- 
surance of  the  new  covenant:  ** Their  sins  and 
iniquities  will  I  remember  no  more."  When  God 
forgives,  He  blots  out  from  the  book  of  His  re- 
membrance. The  sin  is  gone  as  a  pebble  in  the 
ocean  ;  as  a  cloud  in  the  blue  of  a  summer's  sky. 

Saul's  was  a  sin  of  omission.  The  question 
was  not  what  evil  he  had  done,  but  the  good  he 
had  failed  to  do.  Let  us  remember  that  we  need 
pardon  for  the  sad  lapses  and  failures  of  our  lives, 
equally  as  for  the  positive  transgressions.  And  if 
such  things  are  not  forgiven,  they  will  lie  heavy 
on  our  consciences  when  the  shadows  of  death  be- 
gin to  gather  around  us.  The  New  Testament 
especially  judges  those  who  knew  and  did  not  do 
— the  slothful  servant,  the  virgin  without  the  oil, 
the  priest  that  passed  by  on  the  other  side. 


28 


What  do  these  Hebreivs  here  ? 

I  Sajn.  xxix.  j. 

IT  was  a  very  natural  remark.  The  Philistines 
were  going  into  battle  with  the  Hebrew  king  and 
his  troops,  and  it  was  very  anomalous  that  a 
strong  body  of  Hebrews  should  be  forming  part 
of  the  Philistine  array.  They  had  no  business  to 
be  there.  The  annoyance  of  the  chief  captains 
and  lords  that  surrounded  Achish  was  natural 
enough.  For  long,  probably,  it  had  been  smoul- 
dering; now  it  broke  out  into  flame. 

It  is  very  terrible  when  the  children  of  the 
world  have  a  higher  sense  of  Christian  propriety 
and  fitness  than  Christians  themselves,  and  say  to 
one  another,  **  What  do  these  Hebrews  here  ?  " 
The  word  **  Hebrew  "  means  one  that  has  passed 
over — a  separatist.  The  death  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
was  intended  to  make  all  His  followers  separatists. 
Through  Him  they  have  passed  from  death  unto 
life ;  they  have  been  delivered  out  of  the  power 
of  darkness  and  translated  into  the  kingdom  of 
God's  dear  Son.  The  appeal  of  His  cross  to  us 
all  is,  **  Come  out  from  among  them,  and  be  ye 
separate."  Too  often,  however,  that  call  is  un- 
heeded ;  and,  for  fear  of  man,  we  mingle  with  the 
ranks  of  the  enemies  of  our  Lord. 

If  Christians  attend  the  theatre;  if  Sunday- 
school  teachers,  elders  or  deacons  of  a  church, 
are  found  participating  in  the  pleasures  of  the 
ungodly;  if  the  young  Christian  man  is  found 
loosely  consorting  with  the  card-players  of  the 
smoking-room  of  an  ocean  steamer — may  not  the 
sneer  go  round,  *'What  do  these  Hebrews 
here?"  "What  doest  thou  here,  Elijah!"  is 
the  remonstrance  of  God.  *^  What  do  these  He- 
brews here?  "  that  of  the  world,  which  not  un- 
frequently  has  a  truer  sense  of  propriety  than 
God's  professing  followers. 


29 


David  encouraged  himself  in  the  Lord  his  God. 

I  Sam.  XXX.  6. 

HIS  God  !  Doubtless  the  chronicler  heard 
him  say  repeatedly,  as  he  was  so  fond  of  saying, 
"  My  God,  my  God,"  "I  will  say  unto  God, 
my  rock,  why  hast  Thou  forsaken  me?  "  Though 
he  had  seriously  compromised  God's  cause,  by 
the  failure  of  his  faith,  by  consorting  with  Achish 
and  the  Philistines,  by  a  tortuous  and  treacherous 
policy,  yet  God  was  still  his  God ;  and,  in  the 
supreme  crisis  which  had  overtaken  him,  he  nat- 
urally betook  himself  to  the  covert  of  those  lov- 
ing wings. 

Jle  encouraged  himself  . — He  would  go  back  on 
promises  of  forgiveness  and  succor,  which  had  so 
often  cheered  him  in  similar  straits.  He  would 
recall  his  songs  in  former  nights  as  black  as  this, 
and  therefore  would  have  hope.  He  would  re- 
member that  he  had  been  brought  through  worse 
trials;  and  surely  He  who  had  helped  him 
against  Goliath  and  Saul  would  not  fail  him 
against  the  Amalekites.  Besides,  he  had  prob- 
ably left  his  dear  ones  in  the  protection  of  the 
encamping  angel ;  and  though  his  faith  might  be 
tried,  it  could  not  be  entirely  disappointed.  In 
this  way  he  encouraged  himself.  All  around  was 
tumult  and  fear;  but  in  God  peace  and  rest 
brooded,  as  swans  on  a  tranquil  lake.  His  men 
might  speak  of  stoning  him  ;  his  heart  be  greatly 
distressed  for  wives  and  children  ;  his  life  be  in 
jeopardy :  but  God  was  a  very  present  help. 
"  Why  art  thou  cast  down,  and  disquieted,  O  my 
soul?     Hope  thou  in  God." 

In  similar  circumstances,  let  us  have  resort  to 
similar  sources  of  comfort  ;  hide  in  God,  and  en- 
courage ourselves  in  Him.  It  was  in  this  spirit 
that  John  Knox,  when  about  to  face  death,  said 
to  his  wife,  **  Read  to  me  where  I  first  cast 
anchor." 

30 


All  the  valiant  7nen.   .   .   . 

I  Sam.  xxxi.  iiy  12. 

THIS  was  a  noble  and  generous  act.  At  the 
beginning  of  his  reign,  in  the  early  dawn  of 
youthful  promise  and  prowess,  when  he  was  the 
darling  of  the  nation,  Saul  had  interposed  to  de- 
liver their  beleaguered  city.  And  now,  as  the 
awful  tidings  of  his  defeat  and  suicide  spread  like 
fire  through  the  country,  the  men  whom  he  had 
succored  remembered  his  first  kingly  act,  and 
showed  their  appreciation  for  his  kindness  by  do- 
ing a  strong  and  chivalrous  deed  in  rescuing  his 
remains  from  dishonor.  They  could  not  help 
him,  but  they  could  save  his  honor.  When 
David  heard  of  this  act,  he  sent  messengers  to  the 
men  of  Jabesh-Gilead,  thanking  them  for  their 
chivalrous  devotion  to  the  memory  of  the  fallen 
king,  and  promising  to  requite  the  kindness  as 
one  done  to  the  entire  nation,  and  to  himself. 

Are  we  careful  enough  of  the  honor  and  name 
of  our  dear  Lord  ?  He  has  done  for  us  spiritu- 
ally all  that  Saul  did  for  Jabesh-Gilead,  and 
more.  He  has  delivered  our  soul  from  death, 
our  eyes  from  tears,  and  our  feet  from  falling. 
Let  us  be  swift  to  maintain  the  honor  of  His  name 
among  those  who  are  so  apt  at  making  it  their 
scorn. 

It  was  well  that  these  men  did  not  wait  for 
others  to  act.  Had  they  done  so,  the  body  of 
Saul  might  have  rotted  piecemeal  on  the  walls  of 
the  temple  at  Bethshan.  If  they  had  left  this  act 
of  reparation  for  Abner,  or  Ish-bosheth,  it  would 
never  have  been  done.  There  is  no  order  of  pre- 
cedence, when  a  wrong  has  to  be  righted,  or  a 
friend  vindicated.  The  man  who  is  next  must 
act.  Let  us  strike  into  the  fray,  and  count  that 
our  opportunity  is  warrant  enough.  He  who 
can,  may. 


31 


Saul  and  Jonathan  were  lovely  and  pleasaiit  in 
their  lives.  2  Satn.  i.  23. 

IT  was  very  lovely  and  pleasant  of  David  to  say 
so.  He  had  no  hesitation,  of  course,  in  saying 
this  of  his  beloved  Jonathan,  every  memory  of 
whom  was  very  pleasant,  like  a  sweet  strain  of 
music,  or  the  scent  of  the  spring  breeze ;  but  he 
might  have  been  excused  for  omitting  Saul  from 
the  graceful  and  generous  epithets  he  heaped  on 
the  kindred  soul  of  his  friend.  But  death  had 
obliterated  the  sad,  dark  memories  of  recent  days, 
and  had  transported  the  Psalmist  across  the  dream 
of  years  to  Saul  as  he  was  when  he  was  first  intro- 
duced to  him.  All  that  could  be  said  in  praise 
of  the  first  Hebrew  king  was  crowded  into  these 
glowing  lines — the  courage,  martial  prowess,  swift- 
ness to  aid  those  who  required  help,  his  pleasant- 
ness and  courtesy  in  address. 

This  is  the  love  of  God,  which  He  breathes 
into  the  hearts  of  His  children.  They  become 
perfect  in  love,  as  He  is.  "  God  commendeth 
His  love  toward  us,  in  that,  while  we  were  yet 
sinners,  Christ  died  for  us."  It  is  Godlike  for 
His  children  to  love  their  enemies,  bless  those 
who  curse  them,  and  pray  for  all  who  despitefully 
use  and  persecute  them.  Is  such  love  ours?  Do 
we  forbear  from  thinking  evil?  Do  we  look  on 
the  virtues  more  often  than  the  failures  of  our 
friends?  Do  we  cast  the  mantle  of  forgiveness 
over  the  injuries  done  to  us,  and  dwell  tenderly 
on  the  excellences  of  our  foes?  Such  is  the  love 
which  never  fails,  but  endures  when  faith  has 
turned  to  fruition,  and  hope  has  realized  its 
dreams. 

We  need  most  of  all  a  baptism  of  love.  A  piece 
of  clay  will  become  fragrant  if  placed  in  conti- 
guity to  attar  of  roses.  Let  us  lie  where  John 
did,  on  the  bosom  of  incarnate  love,  till  we  begin 
to  love  as  he. 

32 


The  men  of  Judah  came,  and  there  they  anointed 
David  king.  2  Satn.  U.  4. 

THUS  was  David  anointed  a  second  time. 
Hitherto  he  had  been  the  leader  of  a  troop  ;  now 
he  became  king  of  his  own  tribe  :  and  his  king- 
dom clustered  around  the  ancient  city  of  Hebron. 

Typically,  we  learn  that  our  blessed  Lord  will 
be  acknowledged  King  of  His  own  people,  the 
Jews,  before  He  is  accepted  by  the  world  at  large. 
Now,  His  kingdom  is  in  mystery — it  is  in  the 
Adullam  stage.  Men  are  gathering  to  Him  from 
all  quarters ;  but  as  yet  the  world  does  not  recog- 
nize it  in  their  political  calculations.  But  ere 
long  the  Jews  will  recognize  Him  as  King,  and 
then  we  may  begin  to  expect  His  enthronement 
over  the  populations  of  the  globe.  When  they 
repent  and  art  converted,  times  of  repenting  will 
come  to  all  the  world. 

Experimentally  we  are  taught,  that  as  each  new 
department  of  our  life  unfolds,  we  should  give 
Christ  a  fresh  coronation.  The  attitude  which 
we  took  up  years  ago,  of  complete  consecration, 
must  be  applied  perpetually  to  each  fresh  develop- 
ment of  experience.  Each  new  step  should  be 
characterized  by  a  definite  waiting  on  God,  that 
there  may  be  a  fresh  enduement  of  power,  a  re- 
charging of  the  spirit  with  His  might.  Was  He 
King  in  the  cave,  then  be  sure  to  acknowledge 
Him  as  such,  now  that  you  are  called  from  ob- 
scurity into  tlie  glare  of  noon.  Whenever  God 
says,  by  the  circumstances  of  your  life.  Go  up ; 
always  kneel  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  saying,  "Lord, 
in  the  very  little  I  found  my  joy  and  strength  in 
serving  Thee  only ;  and  now,  amid  the  greater 
responsibility  and  publicity  of  my  life,  I  desire  to 
be  Thy  earnest,  simple-minded,  whole-hearted 
follower." 

Have  you  anointed  Jesus  as  your  King?     Do 
not  fail.     Remember  how  near  of  kin  He  is. 
33 


David  wared  stronger  and  stronger,  and  the  house 
of  Saul  wared  weaker.  2  Sam.  Hi.  i. 

THE  war  between  the  flesh  and  the  Spirit  is 
long,  but  the  end  is  sure.  As  the  Baptist  said  of 
Jesus,  so  must  the  flesh  say  of  the  Spirit,  He  must 
increase ;  I  must  decrease.  Sometimes,  in  the 
long  strain  of  the  war,  our  spirit  dies  down.  Will 
the  bugle  never  cease  to  ring  out  its  alarm?  Will 
the  assaults  never  come  to  an  end?  When  shall 
we  be  able  to  lay  aside  sword  and  breastplate, 
and  to  enter  the  land  of  rest  ?  Oh  to  be  able  to 
say  with  the  Apostle,  *'I  have  fought  the  good 
fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept  the 
faith"  ! 

Yet  take  heart.  The  assaults  diminish  in  fre- 
quency and  strength  in  proportion  as  they  are 
faithfully  resisted.  Each  time  you  resist  success- 
fully you  will  find  it  easier  to  resist.  The  strength 
of  the  vanquished  foe  enters  the  vanquisher. 

Moreover,  ultimate  victory  is  secured.  "What- 
soever is  born  of  God  overcometh  the  world  ;  and 
this  is  the  victory  that  overcometh  the  world, 
even  our  faith.  Who  is  he  that  overcometh  the 
world,  but  he  that  believeth  that  Jesus  is  the  Son 
of  God?"  (i  John  v.  4,  5).  It  makes  a  great 
difference  to  the  soldier,  when  he  belongs  to  an 
All-Victorious  Legion,  and  serves  under  a  Cap- 
tain that  never  lost  a  fight.  And  there  can  be 
no  doubt  as  to  the  issue  in  your  heart  or  mine. 
*'  He  must  reign  till  He  has  put  all  enemies  under 
His  feet." 

At  any  moment  we  may  look  for  the  sudden 
collapse  of  a  great  portion  of  the  confederacy  of 
evil,  which  has  so  long  menaced  us ;  as  when 
Abner  suddenly  came  to  Hebron  to  give  in  his 
adhesion  to  David.  What  a  huge  piece  of  cliff" 
fell  that  day  into  the  sea  !  Expect  the  sudden 
collapse  of  evils  which  have  long  troubled  you. 


34 


As  the  Lord  liveth^  who  hath  redeemed  my  soul 
out  of  all  adversity.  2  Sam.  iv.  g. 

IT  was  the  midday  of  David's  life,  and,  look- 
ing back,  lie  saw  how  good  the  Lord  had  been  to 
him.  Step  by  step  God  had  brought  him  up  out 
of  a  horrible  pit,  and  from  the  miry  clay,  setting 
him  upon  a  rock,  and  establishing  his  goings. 
What  need  was  there,  then,  that  men  should  in- 
terfere to  hasten  the  unfolding  of  the  Divine  pur- 
poses? It  had  been  his  lifelong  habit  to  wait. 
Whatever  he  needed  he  looked  to  God  to  supply. 
Whatever  difficulties  blocked  his  path,  he  looked 
to  God  to  remove.  Whatever  men  stood  in  his 
way  he  looked  to  God  to  deal  with  them.  Twice 
in  the  wilderness  he  refused  to  take  Saul's  life. 
He  had  executed  the  Amalekite  because  he  claimed 
to  have  slain  Saul  on  Gilboa.  And,  in  pursuance 
of  the  same  policy,  he  could  have  no  complicity 
in  the  act  of  the  murderers  of  Ish-bosheth,  even 
though  they  made  his  way  clear  to  the  throne  of 
Israel. 

Let  God  redeem  thee  out  of  all  thine  adversi- 
ties. Do  not  lose  heart  or  hope.  Do  not  put 
forth  thy  hand  to  snatch  at  any  position  or  deliv- 
erance by  an  act  which  might  afterward  cause 
thee  shame  or  sorrow.  "  Trust  in  the  Lord,  and 
do  good.  Roll  thy  way  upon  the  Lord.  Trust 
also  in  Him,  and  He  shall  bring  it  to  pass.  Rest 
in  the  Lord,  and  wait  patiently  for  Him"  (Psa. 
xxxvii.  3-7,  R.  v.).  He  who  turns  glaciers  to 
rivers  that  pass  away,  will  remove  all  thy  difficul- 
ties and  perplexities.  He  shall  cause  thee  to  in- 
herit the  land.  He  will  promote  thee  in  due 
time,  and  give  thee  to  see  thy  desire  upon  thine 
enemies.  He  who  redeemed  thy  soul  by  His 
most  precious  blood  cannot  fail  thee,  however 
long  He  may  tarry.  Remember  that  He  ever 
liveth,  and  loveth,  and  reigneth. 


35 


A?id  David  took  hi??i  7nore  wives  out  of  Jerusalem. 

2  Sam.  V.  ij. 

THIS  is  terribly  disappointing !  According 
to  the  ideas  of  the  surrounding  nations,  the 
greatness  of  a  monarch  was  gauged  by  the  extent 
of  his  harem.  But  the  law  of  Moses  put  severe 
restraint  on  the  multiplication  of  wives,  *'  that  his 
heart  turn  not  away  "  (Deut.  xvii.  17).  It  seems 
as  though  the  soul  of  David  sank  into  sensual  in- 
dulgence and  luxuriance.  It  lost  much  of  its 
early  hardihood  and  strength  in  consequence ; 
and  at  this  period  of  his  life  those  seeds  were 
sown,  which  in  after  years  brought  forth  such  a 
plentiful  and  terrible  harvest  of  anguish,  murder, 
and  impurity  in  his  family. 

Few  of  us  realize  how  much  our  character  owes 
to  the  stern  discipline  to  which  God  subjects  us. 
The  only  way  to  keep  us  healthy  and  vigorous  is 
to  send  us  many  a  nipping  frost,  many  a  keen 
northern  blast.  The  bleak  hillside  breeds  stronger 
natures  than  the  warm  sheltered  valley.  The 
difference  between  Anglo-Saxon  and  Negro  is 
largely  wrought  by  temperature  and  soil.  The 
campaign,  with  its  strain  on  every  power  of  en- 
durance, trains  better  soldiers  than  the  barracks. 
As  David  was  a  stronger,  better  man,  when  hunted 
like  a  coney  in  the  rocks  of  Engedi,  so  are  we 
braced  to  a  nobler  life,  when  all  things  seem 
against  us. 

Few  of  us  can  be  trusted  with  unbroken  happi- 
ness. God  is  compelled  to  withhold  what  the 
flesh  craves.  But  where  prosperity  has  shone  on 
your  path,  be  very  careful  not  to  abuse  it.  Con- 
sider it  as  indicating  God's  loving  trust  in  you. 
He  would  rather  convey  His  lesson  in  sunshine 
than  in  storm.  But  walk  carefully  and  humbly, 
looking  to  Him  constantly  for  daily  grace,  and 
never  relaxing  the  girdle  about  the  loin. 


36 


They  set  the  Ark  of  God  upon  a  new  cart. 

2  Sam.  vi.  j. 

THIS  was  their  mistake.  The  Divine  di- 
rections were  explicit  that  the  Ark  of  the  living 
God  must  be  carried  on  the  shoulders  of  living 
men.  There  would  have  been  no  stumbling  of 
oxen,  no  swaying  of  the  Ark  to  falling,  no  need 
for  Uzzah  to  reach  out  his  hand,  if  only  this 
simple  direction  had  been  obeyed.  This  break- 
ing forth  of  God  was  to  recall  men  to  simple 
absolute  obedience  to  the  rules  and  regulations 
that  had  been  so  explicitly  laid  down  in  the 
Levitical  code.  It  could  not  fall  into  disuse 
without  grave  loss  to  the  entire  people.  Better 
that  one  life  should  be  sacrificed  for  disobedience 
than  that  the  whole  nation  should  be  impoverished 
for  the  relaxation  of  that  ancient  law. 

We  are  fond  of  bringing  new  carts  to  God.  At 
every  birthday  we  build  the  new  cart  of  good 
resolution,  and  place  thereon  the  Ark  of  God. 
We  will  be  different,  and  on  our  fresh  endeavors 
the  Lord  of  Hosts  shall  ride  ;  but  we  must  drive, 
and  if  needs  be,  steady  the  Ark.  Ah  !  it  is  not 
long  before  the  oxen  stumble,  and  Uzzah  who 
drives  is  smitten  to  the  dust  of  death. 

God  wants,  not  new  carts,  but  the  living 
shoulders  of  consecrated  men.  We  must  live  for 
Him,  surrendering  ourselves  to  His  service;  not 
driving,  but  being  driven;  not  conducting,  but 
being  impelled ;  not  imposing  our  thoughts  on 
Him,  but  being  willing  to  submit  ourselves  abso- 
lutely to  Him.  There  is  no  need  to  fear  God,  if 
only  we  will  obey  Him,  and  in  obedience  dis- 
cover the  laws  by  which  we  may  approach  and 
serve  Him.  Then  the  power  which  otherwise 
flames  forth  to  destroy  will  become  the  useful 
servant  of  our  faith,  and  we  shall  be  able  to 
undertake  great  things  for  God. 


37 


Do  as  Thou  hast  said. 

2  Sam.  vii.  2^. 

THIS  is  the  voice  of  a  childlike  faith. 

Note  what  led  to  these  words. — Nathan  had 
just  unfolded  to  the  King  all  the  purposes  of 
God's  heart  toward  him.  That  He  would  estab- 
lish his  throne,  deliver  him  from  his  enemies,  and 
set  up  his  dynasty  to  succeed  him — this  and  much 
else.  David's  heart  was  full  of  joy  and  gladness 
— he  knew  that  God  would  not  run  back  from 
His  word ;  but  He  felt  none  the  less  the  duty  of 
claiming  the  fulfillments  of  these  guarantees.  So 
it  is  with  all  the  promises  of  God  ;  though  they  are 
Yea  and  Amen  in  Christ,  it  is  requisite  for  us  to 
put  our  hand  on  them ;  plead  them  before  God  ; 
and  claim  their  fulfillment  with  appropriating  faith. 

Notice  the  attitude  in  tvhich  David  tittered  these 
words. — "He  sat  before  the  Lord."  Was  not 
this  the  position  of  rest  and  trust?  On  another 
occasion,  he  lay  all  night  upon  the  earth  (xii.  16), 
in  an  agony  of  prayer,  because  not  sure  of  God's 
purpose,  and  hoping  to  turn  God  by  the  ex- 
tremity of  his  anguish.  But  there  is  a  marvellous 
alteration  in  the  tone  of  our  prayer,  so  soon  as  we 
can  base  it  on  the  declared  purposes  of  God. 
We  enter  into  His  rest ;  we  put  ourselves  in  the 
current  of  His  purposes ;  we  sit  before  the  Lord. 

Mark  the  blessedness  of  communion  with  God. 
— It  is  as  a  man  talks  with  his  friend.  We  are  not 
required  always  to  kneel  when  we  pray,  or  to  con 
over  a  certain  form  of  words;  we  can  sit  and  talk 
with  God,  catching  up  His  words  as  they  fall  on 
our  hearts,  and  reflecting  them  back  on  Him  in 
praise,  and  prayer,  and  happy  converse.  All 
true  prayer  originates  in  the  declarations  of  God's 
love,  to  each  of  which  we  answer,  Do  as  Thou 
hast  said. 

38 


The  silver  and  gold  he  had  dedicated  of  all  nations 
which  he  subdued.  2  Sam.  viii.  11. 

DAVID  might  not  build  the  temple,  but  he 
was  bent  on  making  provision  for  it.  Indeed, 
Solomon  had  never  been  able  to  do  as  he  did, 
unless  his  father  had  gathered  these  stores  of  gold 
and  silver.  Thus  other  men  labor,  and  we  enter 
into  their  labors;  but  the  accomplished  building 
is  credited  by  God  to  each.  He  does  not  forget 
David  when  Solomon's  temple  stands  complete. 
The  reward  is  proportioned  to  each  man's  service, 
according  to  his  share. 

It  is  a  glorious  thing  when  we  not  only  defeat 
our  foes,  but  get  spoils  out  of  their  overthrow 
which  we  can  use  for  the  service  of  God  and  man. 
It  is  as  possible  for  us  as  for  David.  Out  of  our 
failures,  temptations,  mistakes,  let  us  get  the 
power  of  helping  and  directing  others.  In  death 
Jesus  won  the  keys  of  death  and  Hades,  and  the 
power  to  become  a  merciful  and  faithful  High 
Priest;  and  now  He  ever  liveth  to  make  inter- 
cession for  His  people  (Heb.  vii.  25). 

But  the  main  lesson  of  tin's  chapter  is  the  fore- 
shadowing of  God's  purpose,  that  Gentiles  should 
contribute  to  the  building  of  His  Temple.  What 
was  literally  true  in  the  case  of  the  Temple  of 
Solomon,  is  spiritually  true  of  the  heavenly 
Temple,  the  Church.  From  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  people  and  tongue,  souls  are  being 
gathered,  who  form  a  spiritual  house,  a  holy 
Temple  in  the  Lord.  The  whole  world  is 
destined  to  contribute  to  that  structure,  which  is 
being  prepared  secretly  and  mystically,  but  shall 
ere  long  be  manifested  in  its  full  glory.  It  is 
very  interesting  to  get  this  suggestion  from  the 
chronicles  of  a  nation  so  exclusive  and  haughty 
as  the  Jews.  ''They  shall  come  from  the  East 
and  West.     .     .     ." 


39 


Thou  shalt  eat  bread  at  my  table  continually. 

2  Sam.  ix.  7. 

FOUR  times  in  this  chapter  we  are  told  of  the 
lame  man  eating  bread  at  the  royal  table.  But 
what  are  these  facts  recorded  and  repeated  for, 
save  to  accentuate  the  infinite  blessings  which 
come  to  us  through  the  Divine  love  ? 

Mephibosheth  had  done  nothing  to  merit  the 
royal  favor.  Not  a  word  is  said  of  his  being 
well-favored  and  attractive.  So  far  from  that,  he 
was  lame  on  both  his  feet,  and  probably  a  sickly 
invalid.  In  his  own  judgment  he  was  worthless 
as  a  dead  dog.  His  state  was  impoverished ;  no 
deed  of  prowess  could  win  David's  notice;  he 
was  almost  entirely  at  the  mercy  of  his  servant, 
Ziba.  In  these  respects  there  are  many  analogies 
to  our  own  condition  in  the  sight  of  God.  We 
are  lame  indeed  ;  and,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned, 
it  is  quite  impossible  that  we  should  ever  win  the 
Divine  regard,  or  sit  at  His  table  among  His  sons. 

But  between  David  and  Jonathan  a  covenant 
had  been  struck,  which  had  provided  for  the 
children  of  the  ill-fated  Jonathan  (i  Sam.  xx. 
14-16).  It  was  because  of  this  sacred  obligation 
that  Mephibosheth  fared  as  he  did.  Look  away, 
child  of  God,  to  the  covenant  struck  between 
God  and  thy  representative,  the  Son  of  His  love. 
It  is  idle  of  thee  to  seek  to  propitiate  the  Divine 
favor,  or  earn  a  seat  at  His  table  ;  but  if  thou  art 
willing  to  identify  thyself  with  thy  Lord,  and  to 
shelter  thyself  in  Him  by  the  living  union  of 
faith ;  if  thou  canst  base  thy  plea  on  the  Blood 
of  the  everlasting  covenant — then  the  provisions 
of  that  covenant  between  Father  and  Son  shall 
be  extended  to  thee  :  and  because  of  God's  love 
to  Jesus  thou  slialt  sit  at  the  Divine  table,  and  be 
regarded  as  one  of  the  heirs  of  the  great  King. 


40 


The  Lord  do  that  which  seemeth  Him  good. 

2  Sam.  X.  12. 

ISRAEL'  was  arrayed  against  overwhelming 
odds.  To  human  sight  it  must  have  appeared 
very  improbable  that  Joab  would  be  able  to  hold 
his  own.  However,  he  made  the  best  arrange- 
ments he  could  ;  exhorted  his  men  to  be  of  good 
courage  and  do  their  utmost;  and  then  piously 
left  the  issue  to  the  God  of  battles. 

There  are  times  in  all  lives  when  the  case  seems 
desperate.  How  can  we  meet  with  ten  thousand 
him  who  cometh  against  us  with  twenty  thousand  ! 
Heart  and  flesh  fail.  What  resource  is  there, 
then,  save  in  the  flight  of  the  lonely  man  to  the 
only  God?  It  is  for  God  to  act,  since  the  help 
of  man  is  vain. 

///  your  personal  straits. — When  patience  is 
exhausted  ;  when  the  last  handful  is  taken  from 
the  barrel ;  when  complicated  trials  meet  and 
hem  you  in  ;  when  the  iron  gate  and  the  keepers 
before  the  door  appear  to  render  escape  impossi- 
ble— then  look  up,  God  is  marching  with  rein- 
forcements to  your  aid. 

In  your  work  and  war  for  God  ifi  the  world. 
— .We  too  often  act  and  speak  as  if  success  were 
to  be  won  by  the  forces  that  we  may  be  able  to 
bring  into  the  field,  whereas  God  asks  us  for 
nothing  more  than  fidelity  and  the  right  disposi- 
tion of  such  forces  as  we  can  command ;  He  will 
do  all  the  rest. 

In  your  outlook  on  the  conflict  between  good  and 
evil. — It  is  quite  true  that  there  appears  to  be  an 
infinite  disparity  between  the  one  and  the  other. 
But  there  are  other  forces  in  the  field  than  ap- 
pear. There  is  another  host  of  which  God  Him- 
self is  captain.  When  the  enemy  comes  in  like 
a  flood,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  lifts  up  the  stand- 
ard. "There  is  none  like  unto  the  God  of 
Jeshurun,  who  rideth  upon  the  heaven  to  thy 
help." 

41 


David  tarried  still  at  Jerusalem. 

2  Sam.  xi.  /. 

AH  !  fatal  dalliance  in  the  arms  of  sensual  ease  ! 
It  led  to  David's  undoing.  It  was  the  time  of 
the  year  when  kings  generally  went  forth  to  the 
fight;  and  in  earlier  days  David  would  never 
have  thought  of  leaving  to  Joab  or  others  the 
strain  and  stress  of  conflict  when  there  were  hard 
knocks  to  give  and  take.  Indeed,  on  more  than 
one  occasion  his  followers  had  remonstrated 
against  his  exposing  the  Light  of  Israel  to  the 
risks  of  the  battlefield.  But  now  he  sends  Joab 
and  his  mighty  men  to  fight  against  Ammon, 
while  he  tarries  securely  at  Jerusalem.  Pn  this 
fatal  lethargy  he  betrays  the  deterioration  of  his 
soul.  Already  the  walls  were  broken  down,  and 
entrance  into  the  citadel  was  easy.  We  are  not 
surprised  to  learn  that  as  he  sauntered  lazily  on 
his  palace  roof  in  the  sultry  afternoon  he  was 
swept  away  before  the  rush  of  sudden  passion, 
and  took  the  poor  man's  ewe  lamb  to  satisfy  the 
vagrant,  hungry  impulse  which  suddenly  came  to 
him. 

Beware  of  hours  of  ease  !  Rest  is  necessary ; 
times  of  recruiting  and  renewal  must  come  to  us 
all ;  nature  positively  demands  re-creation ;  but 
there  must  be  no  neglect  of  known  duty,  no  hand- 
ing over  to  others  of  what  we  might  and  could 
do  ourselves,  no  tarrying  behind  the  march  of 
the  troops  when  we  should  go  forth  with  them  to 
the  battle.  Watch  and  pray,  that  ye  enter  not 
into  temptation.  Be  most  on  guard  when  not 
actively  engaged  against  the  enemy.  One  un- 
locked gate  may  admit  the  foe  to  the  citadel  of 
the  life,  and  rob  you  of  peace  for  all  after-days. 
The  luxury  of  the  plains  of  Capua  was  more  fatal 
to  the  soldiers  of  Hannibal  than  the  passage  of 
the  Alps. 


42 


And  David  went  to  Radbah,  and  fought  against 
it,  a?id  took  it.  2  Sam.  xii.  2g. 

VICTORY  might  seem  to  have  been  forever 
forfeited  after  so  great  a  fall.  We  could  not  have 
been  surprised  had  we  been  told  that  from  this 
time  onward  the  course  of  David's  conquests  had 
stayed.  And  yet  this  thought  would  be  a  mis- 
conception of  God's  dealings  with  the  penitent. 
Where  there  is  true  contrition,  confession,  and 
faith.  He  not  only  forgives,  but  restores;  He  not 
only  restores  to  the  enjoyment  of  His  favor,  but 
reinstates  in  opportunities  of  usefulness.  So 
Jesus  not  only  met  the  apostle  who  had  denied 
Him,  and  put  him  back  into  the  old  position  of 
happy  fellowship,  but  gave  him  a  commission  to 
feed  His  sheep  and  lambs. 

We  have  sometimes  met  backsliders  who  have 
doubted  the  possibility  of  their  forgiveness ;  or, 
if  they  have  realized  this,  they  have  never  dared 
to  hope  that  they  could  ever  be  what  they  had 
been.  And  so  long  as  faith  refuses  to  believe  in 
the  perfect  work  of  God's  love,  it  must  inevitably 
take  a  back  seat.  Let  us  seek  for  such  an  entire 
faith  in  God's  forgiving  and  restoring  love  as  to 
dare  to  believe  that  we  are  put  again  into  the  old 
place,  and  allowed  to  anticipate  the  same  victories 
as  aforetime.  "If  we  confess  our  sins.  He  is 
faithful  and  just  to  forgive  us  our  sins,  and  to 
cleanse  us  from   all   unrighteousness"    (i  John 

i.  9). 

Directly  David  said,  "I  have  sinned,"  in  the 
flash  of  a  moment  Nathan  said,  **  The  Lord  hath 
put  away  thy  sin  "  ;  and  when  Joab  sent  tidings 
that  Rabbah  was  about  to  fall,  David  was  per- 
mitted the  honor  of  its  final  capture,  though  it 
had  been  associated  so  closely  with  Uriah's  death. 
Where  sin  abounds  grace  superabounds,  and 
reigns  through  righteousness.  Dare  to  believe 
this. 

43 


Then  the  king  arose,  and  tare  his  garments,  and 
lay  on  the  earth.  2  Sam.  xiii.  31. 

THROUGHOUT  the  incidents  of  this  chap- 
ter, the  soul  of  David  touched  the  bottom  of  the 
sea  of  anguish  and  remorse.  The  circumstances 
narrated  were  in  themselves  sad  enough ;  but 
there  was  a  more  bitter  element  in  them  for 
David,  because  he  knew  that  they  were  the 
harvest  of  which  his  own  sin  was  the  seed.  Here 
began  to  be  fulfilled  the  sentence  of  God  through 
Nathan,  ''The  sword  shall  never  depart  from 
thine  house." 

He  had  broken  up  the  peace  of  another's 
home,  and  peace  had  quitted  his  home,  never  to 
return.  He  had  defiled  the  purity  of  Uriah's 
wife,  and  the  purity  of  his  own  daughter  had 
been  trampled  under  foot.  He  had  smitten 
Uriah,  and  now  Absalom  had  murdered  Amnon. 
Through  those  awful  hours  when  the  entire  fate 
of  the  whole  of  his  family  seemed  trembling  in 
the  balance,  he  drank  to  the  dregs  the  cup  of 
bitterness.  Oh,  how  true  are  the  apostle's 
words:  "Whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that  shall 
he  also  reap.  For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh 
shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption  ;  but  he  that 
soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life 
everlasting." 

Sin  resembles  the  Australian  weed,  which  when 
once  it  is  sown  in  the  waters  will  spread  with 
such  rapidity  as  to  spoil  their  beauty,  and  choke 
their  flow.  We  must  distinguish  between  the 
penal  and  natural  results.  The  penal  were  borne 
by  Christ  for  us  all,  and  are  remitted  forever- 
more  ;  but  the  natural  remain  even  to  forgiven 
penitents,  as  they  did  to  David.  Still,  God's 
grace  may  transmute  them  into  blessings,  and 
cause  pearls  to  grow  where  before  there  had  been 
gaping  wounds.  Ask  God  to  take  in  hand  the 
natural  consequences  of  your  sins,  and  make 
them  means  of  grace  and  ennoblement. 
44 


Yet  doth  He  devise  means  that  His  banished  be 
not  expelled  from  Him.  2  Sam.  xiv.  14. 

THE  means  that  David  devised  were  really  in- 
adequate. He  allowed  his  heart  to  dictate  to  his 
royal  sense  of  justice  and  rectitude,  and  permit- 
ted Absalom  to  return  to  his  country  and  home 
without  one  word  of  confession,  one  symptom  of 
penitence.  The  king  was  overmastered  by  the 
father  ;  and  tlie  result  was  disastrous.  It  shook 
the  respect  of  his  people,  undermined  the  founda- 
tions of  just  government,  slackened  the  bands  of 
every  family  in  the  land,  and  confirmed  Absalom 
in  his  willful  and  obstinate  career.  **  What  !  " 
said  he  to  himself,  "  does  my  father  bid  me 
come  back  without  conditions  ?  Does  he  demand 
no  confession  or  reparation  ?  Then  he  condones 
my  sin." 

Let  parents  be  warned.  If  your  children  dis- 
obey, and  violate  the  rules  of  your  home,  you 
have  no  right  to  treat  them  as  you  did  before, 
until  they  have  owned  their  sin.  You  must  insist 
on  penitence,  confession,  and  reparation,  though 
it  take  hours  or  days  or  even  weeks  of  suffering 
and  pleading  to  bring  it  about. 

Into  what  relief  does  David's  mistake  throw 
God's  way  of  forgiveness  and  salvation  !  Had  he 
acted  as  David,  and  as  so  many  wish  us  to  be- 
lieve, He  would  have  reinstated  the  human  family 
in  the  Paradise  of  His  love  without  waiting  for 
the  work  of  the  Mediator,  or  the  confession  of 
the  prodigal.  By  the  arbitrary  exercise  of  His 
sovereign  will  He  might  have  wiped  out  the 
record  of  our  sins  without  our  concurrence.  But 
it  would  have  been  to  the  irreparable  undoing  of 
man.  Hence  it  behoved  Christ  to  suffer,  by  His 
blood  making  an  atonement  for  our  sins,  and  by 
His  Spirit  bringing  us  to  penitence  and  con- 
fession. 


45 


Here  am  /,  let  Him  do  to  ftie  as  seemeth  good 
unto  Him.  2  Sam.  xv.  26. 

There  is  the  patience  of  hope.  We  love  to 
gird  ourselves  in  the  vehemence  of  our  self-will, 
to  go  where  we  choose,  to  rule  the  lives  of 
others ;  but  as  the  years  pass  and  our  pride  is 
humbled,  the  sinews  of  our  strength  slackened, 
and  the  radiance  of  early  prospects  overcast,  we 
are  willing  to  hand  ourselves  over  to  our  Father, 
saying,  "  Behold,  here  am  I ;  let  Him  do  to  me 
as  seemeth  good  unto  Piim." 

It  was  thus  that  Isaac  was  passive  in  the  hands 
of  Abraham.  It  was  thus  that  Jesus  spoke  to  His 
Father,  "  I  come  to  do  thy  will,  O  my  God."  It 
was  thus  that  the  maiden  who  was  blessed  above 
women,  answered  the  angel's  message.  It  was 
thus  that  Paul,  when  urged  not  to  go  up  to  Jeru- 
salem, avowed  his  willingness  to  live  or  die,  as 
the  Lord  might  choose. 

God  is  ever  working  upon  us  through  circum- 
stances; and,  as  in  the  present  case,  sometimes 
He  overrules  the  plottings  of  wicked  men  to  ful- 
fill His  Divine  purpose.  His  will  is  sometimes 
brought  to  us  in  a  cup  which  a  Judas  holds  to  our 
lips.  How  blessed  to  be  able  to  say,  as  we  go 
forth  to  meet  our  Father's  will.  Behold,  here  am 
I  !  and  to  look  beyond  the  plottings  and  machi- 
nations of  our  enemies  to  One  who  loves  us  infi- 
nitely. Whatever  He  permits  must  be  good. 
Good,  if  driven  as  an  exile  from  our  home; 
good,  if  exposed  to  the  revilings  of  a  Shimei ; 
good,  if  the  heart  breaks  in  bitter  tears.  All 
must  be  good  which  the  good  Lord  permits  or 
appoints.  Many  were  the  afflictions  of  David, 
but  out  of  them  all  he  was  delivered.  When  he 
had  learned  the  lesson,  the  rod  was  stayed.  God 
did  not  take  away  His  mercy  from  him.  Thou 
too  art  in  His  hands,  and  He  will  certainly  bring 
thee  again,  and  show  thee  the  city  and  His  habi- 
tation. 

46 


The  king  and  all  the  people  came  weary y  and  re- 
freshed themselves  there.  2  Sam.  xvi.  14. 

A  GREAT  weariness  falls  often  on  our  souls. 
We  are  wearied  because  of  the  greatness  of  our 
way,  and  inclined  to  say  there  is  no  hope. 
Memory  tires  us,  perpetually  casting  up  the 
record  of  past  unfaithfulness  and  transgression. 
The  bitter  way  of  the  natural  consequences  of  sin 
is  toilsome  and  difficult  to  the  feet.  We  faint 
before  the  averted  eye  of  former  friends  and  the 
pitiless  criticism  of  foes.  Longings  for  a  van- 
ished past,  for  life  and  love,  for  purity  and  peace, 
grind  heavily  in  the  soul.  Our  King  has  known 
something  of  human  weariness,  though  not  from 
all  the  sources  that  cause  it  in  His  subjects. 

But  amid  the  presence  of  our  weariness  the 
voice  of  God  may  be  heard  saying,  **  This  is  the 
rest  wherewith  ye  may  cause  the  weary  to  rest, 
and  this  is  the  refreshing."  I'here  is  rest  for 
weary  souls  beneath  the  shadow  of  the  cross,  in 
the  sight  of  which  the  burden  rolls  away.  There 
is  rest  and  refreshment  as  we  sit  in  the  banquet- 
ing house  of  Christ's  manifested  and  realized  af- 
fection. There  is  refreshment  as  we  eat  of  His 
flesh  and  drink  of  His  blood  ;  as  we  yield  our 
will  to  His;  as  we  sit  with  Him  in  heavenly 
places.  We  assuredly  find  Him  to  be  *'  a  hiding 
place  from  the  wind,  and  a  covert  from  the  tem- 
pest ;  as  rivers  of  water  in  a  dry  place,  as  the 
shadow  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  land"  (Isa. 
xxxii.  2). 

There  is  no  hill  Difficulty  without  its  arbor ; 
no  desert  without  its  oasis  ;  no  sultry  heat  with- 
out its  shadow  of  a  great  rock  ;  no  weariness 
without  its  pillow ;  no  intolerable  sorrow  without 
its  solace  ;  no  weariness  without  its  refreshment; 
no  failure  of  man  without  a  very  present  help  in 
God. 


47 


Arise,  and  pass  quickly  over  the  ivater. 

2  Sam.  xvii.  21. 

THE  water  of  Jordan  may  serve  as  an  illustra- 
tion for  our  position.  Our  David  has  passed 
over  the  waters  of  death,  and  in  doing  so  has 
taken  us  with  Him.  There  is  a  sense  in  which 
in  the  morning  light  of  Easier  Day  all  who  be- 
lieved passed  over  with  Him,  so  that  "by  the 
morning  light  there  lacked  not  one  of  them  that 
was  not  gone  over  to  Jordan." 

We  all  hold  the  doctrine  of  Substitution.  Do 
we  sufficiently  realize  that  of  Identificatio?i  ? 
Not  only  did  Jesus  die  for  us,  but  we  died  with 
and  in  Him.  In  Him,  as  tlie  true  Noah's  Ark, 
the  whole  Church  passed  over  the  Jordan  of 
death  from  the  old  world  to  the  new.  There  are 
some  who  do  not  understand  that  in  the  purpose 
of  God  we  are  already  standing  on  resurrection 
ground.  Across  the  water  we  can  hear  the  mur- 
mur of  the  world,  and  detect  its  corruption  ;  but 
we  are  the  inheritors  of  the  world  in  which  there 
is  no  death  nor  corruption  nor  the  dominion  of 
sin.  When  a  man  realizes  this  he  no  longer 
braces  himself  up  to  meet  death,  because  he 
knows  that  in  the  person  of  Christ  he  has  left  it 
behind  forever. 

What  is  true,  however,  in  God's  purpose  should 
be  the  aim  and  goal  of  our  daily  striving.  To  us 
there  comes  the  unceasing  call,  "Arise,  and  go 
over  Jordan."  There  is  always  a  thither  and  a 
hither  side  for  every  experience  and  act.  We 
may  always  do  as  the  world  does ;  this  is  to  stay 
on  the  death  side.  We  may  always  do  as  Christ 
does;  this  is  to  pass  over  to  the  risen  and  living 
side.  Reckon  that  you  have  died,  and  mortify 
the  deeds  of  your  body.  "  And  if  Christ  be  in 
you,  the  body  is  dead  because  of  sin ;  but  the 
spirit  is  life  because  of  righteousness." 


48 


Wherefore  wilt  thou  ru7i  ?  .  .  .  Come  what  may^ 
said  he,  I  will  run.         2  Sam.  xviU.  22,  2j  (r.v.). 

JOAB  did  not  love  David,  as  Ahimaaz  did, 
and  could  not  understand  what  made  the  young 
man  so  eager  to  carry  the  tidings.  Doubtless 
Ahimaaz  and  Cushi  entirely  misinterpreted  the 
heart  of  David,  and  thought  tliat  he  would  be 
glad  to  hear  that  the  rebellion  was  stamped  out, 
and  Absalom  was  dead.  And  it  was  because  of 
the  pleasure  which  he  thought  to  give  his  king 
that  the  swift-footed  son  of  Zadok  pleaded  for 
permission  to  run.  What  though  there  would 
be  no  reward,  or  that  it  would  fall  to  the  lot  of 
Cushi,  who  had  already  started  at  Joab's  com- 
mand— that  mattered  not,  the  love  of  David  con- 
strained him. 

How  often  that  question  of  reward  is  thrown 
at  the  servants  of  God.  It  is  one  of  the  favorite 
taunts  of  the  world  ;  as  Satan  said  of  Job,  that 
we  do  as  we  do  because  we  are  paid.  "Doth 
Job  serve  God  for  nought?"  And  nothing  so 
startles  men  as  disinterested  service.  They  can- 
not account  for  it ;  but  it  wins  their  respect. 
"Reward  or  no  reward;  recompense  or  none  ; 
smiles  or  tears,  come  what  may,  let  me  run." 
That  is  the  spirit  that  becomes  a  Christian,  and 
convinces  the  world.  "The  love  of  Christ  con- 
straineth  us." 

Ahimaaz  outran  Cushi.  The  one  was  a  volun- 
teer for  love's  dear  sake  ;  the  other,  a  bond-serv- 
ant, doing  as  he  was  told.  Love  loaned  wings 
to  his  feet,  and  speeding  past  his  fellow  bore  him 
first  into  David's  presence.  So  God's  will  is  done 
in  heaven:  "The  cherubim  ran  and  returned 
like  a  flash  of  lightning."  So  God's  will  is  done 
on  earth :  "  They  departed  quickly  from  the 
tomb  with  fear  and  great  joy,  and  ran  to  bring 
His  disciples  word.  And  behold,  Jesus  met 
them,  saying,  All  hail !  " 

49 


The  King  is  near  of  kin  to  21s. 

2  Sa?)i.  xix.  42. 

THERE  are  two  derivations  for  the  word 
king  :  one  from  the  word  can — the  king  is  the 
man  that  can  do  things;  the  other  from  the  word 
kin — the  king  is  closely  related  to  us,  of  our 
kith  and  kin.  In  either  case,  there  is  a  beauti- 
ful meaning,  as  touching  our  Lord  and  Saviour. 
He  is  King,  because  He  has  overcome  our  ene- 
mies, and  can  overcome.  He  is  King,  because 
He  has  taken  on  Himself  our  flesh  and  blood, 
and  has  forever  made  us  one  with  Himself.  The 
King  is  our  kinsman.     Our  kinsman  is  King. 

It  is  very  comforting  to  know  how  really  our 
Lord  has  identified  Himself  with  us.  The  Gos- 
pels are  full  of  the  wonderful  story.  His  kinship 
was  manifested  in  — 

His  Prayers. — He  bade  us  speak  to  God  as 
our  Father;  in  that  marvellous  possessive  pro- 
noun, not  only  linking  us  all  to  one  another,  but 
including  Himself  in  our  petitions,  save  when  we 
ask  for  forgiveness. 

His  Infirmities. — "We  have  not  a  high  priest 
who  cannot  be  touched  with  the  feeling  of  our 
infirmities."  His  hunger  and  thirst;  His  weari- 
ness and  exhaustion  ;  His  suffering  unto  death — 
all  accentuate  the  closeness  of  the  tie  between  us. 

His  Temptations . — "  In  all  points  tempted  like 
as  we  are,  yet  without  sin."  The  avenues 
through  which  the  tempter  could  approach  Him 
were  those  by  which  He  assails  us  also.  No 
temptation  took  Him,  but  such  as  is  common  to 
man.  So  to  every  lonely  soldier  of  His  He 
draws  near,  saying,  "Be  of  good  cheer;  I  have 
passed  through  it  all.  I  am  your  brother  in  the 
fight ;  I  feel  for  you  with  a  quick  sympathy ;  the 
glories  of  my  throne  do  not  alter  my  true-hearted 
love. ' ' 

50 


The  men  of  Judah  clave  unto  their  King. 

2  Sam.  XX.  2. 

WE  are  reminded  of  the  exhortation  of  the 
good  Barnabas,  that  with  purpose  of  heart  the 
converts  of  Antioch  should  cleave  unto  the  Lord. 
This  is  the  test  of  a  true  faith.  We  often  come  to 
the  dividing  of  the  paths.  We  stand  on  the 
watershed  of  the  hills :  that  way  leads  back  to 
Moab  with  its  fascinations;  this  on  to  Canaan 
with  its  spiritual  attractions.  Orpah  and  Ruth 
must  choose.  Each  is  equally  profuse  in  speeches 
and  tears;  but  the  ultimate  test  of  love  is 
whether  they  will  stay  or  go.  Which  will  cleave 
to  the  widowed  Naomi?  She  is  the  truest  lover; 
her  fidelity  will  attest  the  fervor  and  strength  of 
her  affection.  Orpah  kissed  her  mother-in-law, 
and  returned  to  her  people  and  her  gods,  while 
Ruth  "clave  unto  her." 

We  must  cleave  to  Jesus,  /;/  spite  of  the  derision 
of  the  viidtitude.  We  must  be  prepared  to  stand 
with  Him  when  He  stands  alone,  or  goes  forth 
alone  to  die.  We  must  be  willing  to  stem  the 
mighty  tide  of  the  world  which  has  left  Him  and 
pours  past  us.  Though  all  forsake  Him,  yet  we 
must  cleave. 

We  must  cleave  to  Jesus,  in  spite  of  the  rebel- 
lion of  the  flesh.  Our  whole  nature  may  some- 
times rise  in  insurrection,  demanding  some  for- 
bidden fruit.  It  is  no  child's  play  then  for  the 
lonely  will  to  stand  by  itself  in  unshaken  fidelity 
and  loyalty;  but  it  must. 

We  must  cleave  to  Jesus  when  He  seems  to  re- 
buff us.  Only  those  who  can  stand  so  sharp  an 
ordeal,  are  exposed  to  it.  But  sometimes  we  are 
called  to  pass  through  it  as  Job,  that  angels  may 
learn  how  Christ's  lovers  cling  to  Him,  not  for 
His  gifts,  but  for  Himself. 


51 


Because  he  slew  the  Gibeonites. 

2  Sam.  xxi.  i. 

THE  Gibeonites  were  under  the  protection  of 
a  special  covenant,  which  had  been  entered  into 
between  them  and  Joshua.  That  covenant  was 
the  outcome  of  a  ruse  on  their  part.  But  since 
it  had  been  most  solemnly  made  by  the  leaders  of 
Israel,  it  held  good.  The  fact  of  their  deceit  and 
chicanery  could  not  absolve  Israel  from  the  oath 
which  had  been  passed  for  their  safety.  For  cen- 
turies the  provisions  of  this  covenant  had  been 
observed,  till  Saul  invaded  them,  and  slew  the 
Gibeonites.  This  was  a  grievous  sin,  which,  ac- 
cording to  the  religious  light  of  the  time,  seemed 
to  demand  blood ;  and  David  proposed  to  atone 
for  blood  by  blood.  Nothing  but  blood  could 
atone  for  sin  so  black  and  dark. 

We  are  also  protected  by  a  covenant,  into 
which  the  Father  has  entered  with  the  Son,  not 
for  our  worthiness  or  merit,  but  only  because  He 
would.  The  provisions  of  that  covenant  engage 
to  take  us  to  be  His  people,  to  remember  our  sins 
no  more,  and  to  make  the  Divine  law  the  object 
of  our  love  (Heb.  viii.).  And  the  argument  is 
irresistible,  that  if  man  is  so  mindful  of  a  cov- 
enant as  to  feel  that  its  infraction  is  a  sin  which 
can  only  be  expiated  by  blood-shedding,  it  is  im- 
possible to  suppose  that  God  will  ever  run  back 
from  His. 

O  my  soul,  thou  mayest  rest  secure  in  this : 
here  is  an  everlasting  rock  ;  this  foundation  shall 
suffice  thee  forevermore.  Thou  art  in  the  Son  of 
His  love.  Though  thou  art  sinful  and  evil,  yet 
thou  art  included  in  the  covenant  which  is 
more  lasting  than  that  of  day  and  night.  Jesus 
has  met  its  conditions  on  thy  behalf,  and  has  un- 
dertaken to  secure  thy  obedience  and  holiness. 


Thy  gentleness  hath  made  me  great. 

2  Sain.  xxii.  j6. 

THE  triumph  of  God's  gentle  goodness  will 
be  our  song  forever.  In  those  far  distant  ages, 
when  we  look  back  on  our  earthly  course,  as  a 
grown  man  on  his  boyhood,  and  when  the  words 
of  this  Psalm  shall  express  our  glad  emotions,  we 
shall  recognize  that  the  Hand  which  brought  us 
thither  was  as  gentle  as  our  mother's ;  and  that 
the  things  we  craved,  but  failed  to  receive,  were 
withheld  by  His  gentle  goodness.  Our  history 
tells  what  gentleness  will  do. 

The  Apostle  besought  the  Corinthian  converts 
by  the  gentleness  of  Christ  (2  Cor.  x.  i).  Though 
there  were  abuses  amongst  them  that  seemed  to 
call  for  stringent  dealing,  he  felt  that  tliey  could 
be  best  removed  by  the  gentle  love  which  he  had 
learned  from  the  heart  of  Christ.  The  wisdom 
which  is  from  above  is  gentle  as  well  as  pure ;  and 
in  dealing  with  the  sin  that  chokes  our  growth,  it 
is  probable  that  gentleness  will  do  more  than 
severity.  The  gentleness  of  the  nurse  that  cher- 
ishes her  children  ;  of  the  lover  to  her  whom  he 
cherishes  above  himself;  of  the  infinite  love 
which  bears  and  endures  to  the  uttermost — is  the 
furnace  before  which  the  foul  ingredients  of  our 
hearts  are  driven  never  to  return.  We  might 
brave  the  lion  ;  we  are  vanquished  by  the  Lamb ; 
we  could  withstand  the  scathing  look  of  scorn ; 
but  when  the  gentle  Lord  casts  on  us  the  look  of 
ineffable  tenderness,  we  go  out  to  weep  bitterly. 

That  He  has  borne  with  us  so  lovingly;  that 
He  has  filled  our  lives  with  mercy  even  when 
compelled  to  correct ;  that  He  has  never  altered 
in  His  tender  behavior  toward  us ;  that  He  has 
returned  our  rebuffs  and  slights  with  meekness  and 
forbearance ;  that  He  has  never  wearied  of  us — 
this  is  an  everlasting  tribute  to  the  gentleness  that 
makes  great. 

53 


As  the  light  of  the  morning  when  the  sun  risethy 
a  morning  without  clouds.  2  Sam.  xxiU.  4. 

THE  dealings  of  God  with  man  are  compared 
to  morning  light,  and  the  sprouting  of  tender 
grass  in  the  sunshine  that  follows  rain.  The  one 
may  refer  to  youth,  and  the  other  to  age.  In 
each  there  is  sunlight :  in  the  one  case  it  is  before 
the  clouds  have  gathered ;  in  the  other  after  they 
have  dispersed. 

Clouds. — There  are  many  different  sorts  :  the 
cirrus,  like  platines  in  the  sky;  the  cumulus,  in 
heaps,  like  the  summits  of  distant  mountains  ;  the 
strata,  or  long  bars;  the  nimbus,  heavy  with 
sliowers.  There  is  a  counterpart  for  each  in 
human  life,  without  which  we  should  miss  much 
of  those  experiences  of  light  and  shade  that  so 
frequently  reveal  the  nature  of  the  light.  We 
should  not  know  God's  comfort  and  very  present 
help,  if  it  were  not  for  the  clouds  which  are  born 
in  the  marsh-lands  of  trouble.  Who  does  not 
prefer  the  changeful  beauty  of  an  English  spring 
to  the  unclouded  blue  of  Italian  skies? 

The  Light  of  the  Morning. — The  love  of  God 
steals  over  hearts  as  the  dawn.  He  is  the  Rock  ; 
but  His  advent  breaks  gently  as  light.  So  God's 
love  came  to  Lydia,  whose  heart  opened  as  a 
flower  its  petals.  This  makes  it  difficult  for  some 
of  us  to  decide  the  moment  of  our  regeneration ; 
only  we  know  that,  once  darkness,  we  are  now 
light  in  the  Lord. 

Clear  Shining  after  Rain. — We  all  know  some- 
thing of  cloud  and  rain.  If  we  did  not,  our 
lives  would  be  arid  as  a  desert.  Rain  is  neces- 
sary to  fructify  the  seeds  that  lie  buried  in  the 
soil;  but  clear  shining  is  needed  too.  Times  of 
joy  are  needed  equally  as  those  of  sorrow.  The 
tender  grass  is  the  child  of  rain  and  sun.  Hast 
thou  had  tears,  thou  shalt  have  smiles  !  Hast 
thou  had  clouds  and  rain,  thou  shalt  have  clear 
shining ! 

54 


Neither  will  I  offer  burnt-offerings  .   .   .  of  that 
which  hath  cost  me  nothing.  2  Sam.  xxiv.  24. 

GOD'S  love  to  us  cost  Him  something.  He 
spared  not  His  own  Son,  and  that  Son  spared  not 
His  blood.  But  how  little  our  love  to  Him  costs 
us  !  Let  us  understand  that  where  there  is  true, 
strong  love  to  Jesus,  it  will  cost  us  something. 
Love  is  the  costliest  of  all  undertakings. 

It  will  cost  us  Self-denial.  Christ  and  self  are 
perfectly  incompatible ;  to  have  the  one  we  must 
be  prepared  to  surrender  the  other.  The  heart 
subtly  schemes  to  hold  both  ;  but  it  does  not  de- 
ceive Christ.  He  knows  in  a  moment  when  we 
have  preferred  to  spare  ourselves  and  to  sacrifice 
Him,  or  to  obey  Him  and  sacrifice  ourselves. 
We  know  it  also.  At  first  we  may  find  it  an  ef- 
fort to  count  all  things  but  loss  for  Him  ;  but  as 
we  go  on  doing  it,  and  drink  in  the  fresh  air  that 
breathes  about  the  mountains  of  self-denial — 
above  all,  as  we  see  the  smile  of  pleasure  on  His 
face — our  hearts  leap  with  joy,  and  we  love  to 
give  Him  everything,  not  thinking  of  the  cost, 
any  more  than  Mary  did  when  she  broke  the  ala- 
baster box  of  very  precious  ointment.  After  all, 
it  is  but  fitting  that  we  offer  our  bodies  **  a  living 
sacrifice,  holy,  acceptable  unto  God." 

It  will  cost  us  Companionships.  Those  who 
knew  us  will  pass  us  with  averted  faces.  It  will 
cost  us  hard-earned  money ;  for  we  shall  realize 
that  we  have  no  property  in  anything  that  we  pos- 
sess. It  will  cost  us  high  repute  amongst  our  fel- 
lows. But  what  shall  we  mind  if  we  gain  Christ  ? 
You  cannot  give  up  for  Him  without  regaining 
everything  you  have  renounced  ;  but  purified  and 
transfigured.  Did  not  the  Lord  say  so  ?  And 
did  He  not  add  a  hundredfold,  with  persecutioii. 
Let  us  heartily  respond,  "Lord,  Thou  knowest 
all  things  :    "  Thou  knowest  that  I  love  Thee  ! 


65 


As  the  Lord  liveth,  that  hath  redeemed  my  soul 
out  of  all  distress.  i  Kings  i.  zg. 

"  IN  my  distress  I  called  on  the  Lord,  and 
cried  to  my  God."  Never  let  there  be  distress 
without  its  cry.  He  will  hear  your  voice  out  of 
His  temple,  and  your  cry  will  come  before  Him 
even  into  His  ears.  He  will  answer,  and  set  you 
in  a  large  place.  There  is  even  a  gain  to  be  won 
from  distress,  because  it  brings  out  new  phases  of 
Christ's  redemptive  help. 

God  redeemed  David  from  the  calumny  of  those 
who  maligned  him  without  cause.  In  so  many  of 
his  Psalms  he  refers  to  the  unjust  and  cruel  hatred 
which  misrepresented  him  and  his  doings.  But 
God,  to  whom  he  committed  his  cause,  vindi- 
cated him,  so  that  his  righteousness  shone  as  the 
light,  and  his  judgment  as  the  noonday.  So  He 
will  do  for  you.  Those  who  now  lay  all  manner 
of  unkind  charges  to  your  door,  will  be  com- 
pelled to  admit  your  innocence.  Only  leave 
your  cause  with  God,  and  be  still. 

God  redeemed  David  from  all  the  afflictions 
that  shadowed  his  early  days  :  from  his  wanderings 
in  the  wilderness;  from  his  hairbreadth  escapes 
in  the  caves;  from  meeting  his  death  on  many  a 
terrible  battlefield.  We  hardly  realize,  just  now, 
how  much  we  owe  to  the  Angel  of  God's  redemp- 
tion, who  is  ever  beside  us,  environing  us  with 
careful  love,  so  that  no  evil  may  approach  us,  or 
snare  take  our  feet.  Our  pathway  is  thick  with 
snares  and  dangers,  as  the  pilgrims  found  it  when 
journeying  through  the  valley  of  the  shadow ;  but 
there  is  a  way  out,  and  in  the  morning  we  shall 
marvel  to  see  how  we  escaped. 

God  redeemed  David's  life  from  destruction. 
This  was  the  greatest  miracle  of  all,  when  we 
consider  the  strong  passions  that  slumbered  within 
liim,  breaking  out  whenever  he  broke  loose  from 
God's  grace. 

56 


That  the  Lord  may  continue  His  word. 

I  Kings  ii.  ^. 
HOW  strongly  David  held  to  God's  promise  ! 
It  was  deeply  graven  in  his  soul.  How  could  he 
forget  the  word  which  guaranteed  the  succession 
of  his  race  upon  the  throne  of  Israel  I  At  the 
same  time  he  distinctly  recognized  that  the  fulfill- 
ment was  conditional.  There  was  an  if  in  it.  It 
was  only  in  so  far  as  his  children  took  heed  to 
walk  before  God  in  truth  that  God  was  bound  to 
place  them  on  the  throne  of  Israel ;  therefore  he 
urged  Solomon  to  keep  the  charge  of  the  Lord, 
that  the  Lord  might  continue  His  word.  We 
also  must  obey  the  threefold  condition  if  we 
would  enjoy  a  continuance  of  God's  helpful  care. 

1.  Be  thou  strong. — The  strength  which  is  in 
Jesus  Christ  waits  to  make  us  strong.  In  the 
Lion  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  there  is  the  boldness 
which  will  not  swerve  in  the  face  of  the  foe. 
Timid  women  and  little  children  in  the  days  of 
persecution  have  waxed  valiant  in  the  fight,  and 
have  not  flinched  from  death,  because  Jesus  was 
beside  them. 

2.  Keep  the  charge  of  the  Lord  thy  God. — He 
has  committed  to  our  care  many  a  sacred  deposit, 
in  return  for  our  deposit  with  Him  (2  Tim.  i.  12., 
14;  R.  v.,  marg.).  They  are  His  holy  Gospel, 
the  Rest  Day,  the  doctrines  of  the  Evangelical 
Faith,  and  the  Inspired  Word.  Let  us  watch 
them  until  we  see  them  weighed  out  in  the  temple 
as  were  the  sacred  vessels  which  Ezra  committed 
to  the  priests  for  transport  across  the  desert  (Ezra 
viii.  33). 

3.  Keep  His  statutes  and  commandments. — We 
must  obey  with  reverent  care  the  one  great  law  of 
love,  which  includes  all  the  rest.  Acting  thus, 
we  shall  put  ourselves  in  the  way  of  enjoying  a 
continuance  of  that  favor  which  God  has  prom- 
ised. 

67 


/  have  also  given  thee  that  which  thou  hast  not 
asked.  i  Khigs  Hi.  ij. 

THE  understanding  heart  was  Solomon's  su- 
preme request,  and  it  was  given  him  before  the 
morning  light  had  broken  over  Jerusalem.  But 
God  did  exceeding  abundantly  beyond  what  he 
asked  or  thought.  Riches  and  honor,  victory 
and  long  life,  were  thrown  in  as  part  of  the  Di- 
vine gift ;  as  paper  and  string  are  given  by  the 
tradesmen  with  the  goods  we  purchase.  It  seems 
as  though  our  Lord's  words  were  anticipated, 
"Seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  right- 
eousness, and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto 
you." 

Put  first  things  first. — One  of  the  most  im- 
portant lessons  of  life  is  to  discern  the  relative 
value  of  the  objects  within  our  reach.  The  child 
will  take  the  handful  of  glass  beads,  and  leave  the 
heap  of  diamonds  in  the  rough.  It  is  the  terri- 
ble mistake  of  men  that,  perplexed  by  earth's 
cross-lights,  they  put  evil  for  good  and  good  for 
evil ;  they  make  earth  rather  than  heaven  their 
centre ;  time  rather  than  eternity  their  measure- 
ment. 

Seek  God  a?id  all  thifigs  in  Him. — Things 
without  God  cannot  satisfy  the  craving  of  the 
soul.  To  know  God,  and  to  be  known  by  Him, 
is  to  possess  all  things.  All  that  is  lovely,  strong, 
or  right,  in  any  human  being  was  in  the  Creator 
before  it  entered  the  creature ;  having  God,  you 
possess  all  things  in  Him. 

Be  7nore  careful  of  what  you  are  than  what  you 
have. — A  man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the  abun- 
dance of  things  that  he  possesseth  ;  but  in  his 
purity,  truth,  tenderness,  and  the  properties  of 
his  soul.  The  fruit  of  the  Spirit  must  ever  be 
manifest  in  the  life  of  the  believer — "Love,  joy, 
peace,  long-suffering,  gentleness,  goodness,  faith, 
meekness,  temperance." 
58 


Largeness  of  heart. 

I  Kings  iv.  zg. 

WE  must  all  admit  that  our  soul  is  too  narrow. 
It  holds  too  little,  knows  too  little,  is  deficient  in 
will-power,  and,  above  all,  in  capacity  of  love; 
and  when  we  are  called  to  run  in  the  way  of 
God's  commandments,  we  break  down  in  despair, 
and  cry,  "If  I  am  to  be  a  runner,  Thou  must 
first  enlarge  my  heart." 

How  little  we  know  of  the  experience  which 
Madame  Guyon  describes  when  she  says  :  "  This 
vastness  or  enlargedness,  which  is  not  bounded  by 
anything,  increases  every  day ;  so  that  my  soul  in 
partaking  of  the  qualities  of  her  Spouse  seems 
also  to  partake  of  his  immensity." 

"There  is,"  remarks  one  of  the  old  Puritans, 
"  a  straitness,  slavery,  and  narrowness,  in  all  sin; 
sin  crumples  up  our  souls;  which,  if  they  were 
freely  spread  abroad,  would  be  as  large  and  wide 
as  the  whole  universe.  No  man  is  truly  free ;  but 
he  that  hath  his  will  enlarged  to  the  extent  of 
God's  will,  by  loving  whatsoever  God  loves,  and 
nothing  else,  he  enjoys  boundless  liberty,  and  a 
boundless  sweetness."  God's  love  embraces  the 
universe.  He  "  so  loved  the  world  that  He  gave 
His  only-begotten  Son."  We  who  have  partaken 
of  the  Divine  nature  must  also  love  as  He  does. 

Thomas  a  Kempis  says,  finally:  "He  who 
desires  glory  in  things  outside  of  God,  or  to  take 
pleasure  in  some  private  good,  shall  many  ways 
be  encumbered  and  straitened;  but  if  heavenly 
grace  enter  in,  and  true  charity,  there  will  be  no 
envy,  neither  narrowness  of  heart,  neither  will 
self-love  busy  itself,  for  Divine  charity  over- 
cometh  all  things,  and  enlargeth  all  the  powers 
of  the  soul."  Give  unto  us,  O  God,  this  large- 
ness of  heart,  even  as  the  sand  that  is  on  the  sea- 
shore ! 


59 


Now   the  Lord  my  God  hath  given  me  rest  on 
every  side.  i  Kings  v.  4. 

GOD  is  the  Rest-Giver.  When  He  surrounds 
us  on  every  side  with  His  protecting  care,  so  that 
our  life  resembles  one  of  the  cities  of  the  Nether- 
lands in  the  great  war — inaccessible  to  the  foe 
because  surrounded  by  the  waters  of  the  sea,  ad- 
mitted through  the  sluice — then  neither  adversary 
nor  evil  occurrent  can  break  in,  and  we  are  kept 
in  perfect  peace,  our  minds  being  stayed  on 
God. 

Hidden  in  the  hollow  of  His  blessed  hand. 
Never  foe  can  enter,  never  traitor  stand. 

Have  you  experienced  the  rest  which  comes  by 
putting  God  round  about  you,  on  every  side — 
like  the  light  which  burns  brightly  on  a  windy 
night  because  surrounded  by  its  four  panes  of 
clear  glass?  Ah  !  what  a  contrast  between  the 
third  and  fourth  verse :  Wars  on  every  side ; 
Rest  on  every  side.  And  yet  the  two  are  com- 
patible, because  the  wars  expend  themselves  on 
God,  as  the  waves  on  the  shingle;  and  there  are 
far  reaches  of  rest  within,  like  orchards  and 
meadows  and  pasture-lands  beyond  the  reach  of 
the  devastating  water. 

Out  of  such  rest  should  come  the  best  work. 
We  are  not  surprised  to  find  Solomon  announc- 
ing his  purpose  to  build  a  house  unto  the  name 
of  the  Lord.  Mary,  who  sat  at  the  feet  of  Jesus, 
anointed  Him.  Out  of  quiet  hearts  arise  the 
greatest  resolves ;  just  as  from  the  seclusion  of 
country  hamlets  have  come  the  greatest  warriors, 
statesmen,  and  patriots.  Men  think,  foolishly, 
that  the  active,  ever-moving  souls  are  the  strong- 
est. It  is  not  so,  however.  They  expend  them- 
selves before  the  day  of  trial  comes.  Give  me 
those  who  have  the  power  to  restrain  themselves 
and  wait ;  these  are  they  that  can  act  with  the 
greatest  momentum  in  the  hour  of  crisis. 
CO 


There  was  neither  haj/wier,  nor  axe,  nor  any  tool 
of  iron  heard.  i  A'iugs  vi.  7. 

IN  absolute  silence,  like  the  growth  of  a  palm 
in  the  desert,  that  noble  building  arose  in  the 
symmetry  of  its  fair  proportions.  But  there  was 
plenty  of  quarrying  and  hammering  and  chisel- 
ling before  the  materials  were  brought  to  the 
site. 

The  absolute  silence  with  which  the  Temple 
rose  is  a  meet  emblem  of  the  progress  of  the 
Church,  from  its  foundations  laid  in  the  Aposto- 
late  toward  the  top  stone,  which  before  very  long 
will  be  laid  upon  the  completed  structure.  Amid 
the  rise  and  fall  of  dynasties  and  empires,  the 
Church  is  being  built.  Soul  after  soul,  as  so 
many  added  bricks,  is  being  quietly  placed  upon 
the  walls.  Some  day  the  world  will  be  amazed 
when  it  sees  the  New  Jerusalem  descend  out  of 
heaven  from  God.  The  mightiest  works  of  God 
are  the  fruit  of  silence. 

You  and  I  are  now  in  the  quarry,  hewn, 
chipped,  chiselled  :  or  we  are  in  the  saw-pit,  be- 
ing sawn,  planed,  pierced  by  nails.  Be  of  good 
cheer  !  It  will  not  be  long,  the  preparatory  work 
will  be  over,  and  we  shall  become  part  of  the 
eternal  structure.  Into  heaven  there  can  enter 
neither  hammer,  nor  axe,  nor  any  tool  of  iron. 
The  trial  will  have  done  its  work.  Sorrow  and 
crying  will  flee  away.  The  Apostle  Paul,  who 
knew  more  than  any  man  what  trial  and  pain 
meant,  could  confidently  declare:  **  I  reckon 
that  the  sufferings  of  this  present  time  are  not 
worthy  to  be  compared  with  the  glory  which 
shall  be  revealed  in  us."  Then  shall  the  city  of 
God  shine  forth  in  completed  beauty,  her  walls 
Salvation  and  her  gates  Praise  ;  and  the  triumph- 
ant song  of  the  redeemed  shall  ring  forth : 
"  Blessing,  and  honor,  and  glory,  and  power,  be 
unto  Him  that  sitteth  upon  the  throne  and  unto 
the  Lamb  forever  and  ever." 
61 


In  the  phmi  of  Jordan  did  the  king  cast  them. 

I  Kings  vii.  46. 

THE  Apostle  tells  us  to  obey  from  the  heart 
that  mould  or  form  of  doctrine  to  which  we  were 
delivered  (Rom.  vi.  17).  What  a  mould  is  to 
the  metal  which  is  wrought  into  various  forms  of 
utensils,  that  the  form  of  sound  doctrine  is  to  be- 
lievers who  desire  to  resemble  Christ.  When  our 
hearts,  melted  in  contrition  and  penitence,  are 
poured  into  the  teaching  of  the  Apostles,  to 
ponder  it  in  memory,  and  to  carry  it  out  in  life, 
they  are,  so  to  speak,  cast  into  the  pattern  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  they  wear  forevermore. 
Thus  we  are  conformed  to  the  image  of  His  Son. 

We  differ  as  widely  as  the  vessels  named  here. 
Some  are  lavers,  and  some  bases ;  some  shovels, 
and  some  basins.  It  matters  little  what  shape  we 
bear ;  so  long  as  we  are  cleansed  and  meet  for 
the  Master's  use.  Each  vessel  in  Solomon's  tem- 
ple filled  its  own  niche.  The  machinery  of  the 
whole  would  have  been  hindered  if  one  had  been 
missing.  Be  content  with  the  shape  which  the 
Great  Designer  hath  intended  for  thee.  Yield  to 
it.  Dare  to  pour  thyself  into  the  dark  passages 
of  the  mould.  Do  not  ask  the  intention  of  this 
or  that.  Obey  from  the  heart,  otherwise  thou 
mayest  have  to  be  broken  up,  and  put  back  again 
into  the  furnace  to  go  through  the  process  once 
more.  This  is  the  Plain  of  the  Jordan  for  us, 
the  place  of  death;  but  soon  we  shall  be  re- 
mitted to  the  Palace  and  Temple  of  God. 

There  is  no  clue  to  the  understanding  of  the 
mysteries  of  our  mortal  life,  save  the  hypothesis, 
that  we  are  being  prepared  for  the  position  which 
has  been  prepared  for  us  in  the  eternal  world. 
"  And  we  know  that  all  things  work  together  for 
good  to  them  that  love  God." 


62 


That  He  maintain  the  cause  of  His  servant^  as 
every  day  shall  require.  i  Kivgs  viii.  59  (r.  v.). 

THE  R.  V.  marginal  reading  is,  "The  thing 
of  a  day  in  its  day."  What  rest  would  come 
into  our  lives,  if  we  really  believed  that  God 
maintained  the  cause  of  His  servants  !  Men  hate 
you,  and  say  unkind  or  untrue  things  about  you ; 
on  your  pari,  though  you  are  quite  prepared  to 
admit  that  you  have  made  mistakes,  yet  you  know 
that  you  desire  above  all  things  to  act  as  God's 
servant  should,  that  your  motives  are  sincere, 
and  your  hands  clean — be  of  good  courage  then, 
God  will  maintain  your  cause,  as  every  day  may 
require. 

Or,  you  are  beset  by  strong  competition  ;  and, 
in  order  to  hold  your  own,  you  have  been 
tempted  to  do  what  is  not  perfectly  the  best — to 
spice  your  teaching  with  a  little  heterodoxy,  puff 
your  wares  with  misleading  titles,  to  adulterate 
your  goods.  But  there  is  no  need  to  do  this  ;  if 
only  you  are  faithful  to  God,  He  will  maintain 
your  cause,  as  every  day  may  require. 

Or,  you  are  tempted  almost  beyond  endurance, 
and  think  that  you  must  yield.  The  seductions 
are  so  insidious,  the  pitfalls  so  carefully  con- 
cealed, the  charm  of  evil  so  subtle.  But,  if  you 
will  only  look  away  to  God,  you  will  find  Him  a 
very  present  help  to  maintain  your  cause.  Oh, 
trust  Him ;  for  none  of  them  that  do  so  can  be 
desolate.  Daily  strength  for  daily  need ;  daily 
manna  for  daily  hunger ;  daily  maintenance  for 
daily  temptation.     These  are  assured. 

As  we  stand  on  the  hilltop  in  the  morning 
and  look  across  the  valley  of  the  coming  day,  its 
scenes  are  too  closely  veiled  in  heavy-hanging 
mists  for  us  to  specify  all  our  requests.  We  can 
breathe  the  comprehensive  petition,  "Give  us 
this  day  our  daily  bread."  And  God  will  suit 
His  help  to  each  requirement.  As  the  moment 
arrives  "the  thing  "  will  be  there. 
G3 


/  have  hallowed  this  house  which  thou  hast  built. 

I  Kings  ix.  J. 

MAN  builds;  God  hallows.  This  coopera- 
tion between  man  and  God  pervades  all  life. 
Man  performs  the  outward  and  mechanical ;  God 
the  inward  and  spiritual.  Paul  plants,  Apollos 
waters  ;  but  God  gives  the  increase.  We  elabo- 
rate our  sermons  and  addresses,  building  them 
up  with  careful,  eager  thought;  but  God  must 
work  in  and  through  them  for  His  own  glory  in 
the  salvation  and  upbuilding  of  souls.  We  must 
be  careful  to  do  our  part  with  reverence  and 
godly  fear,  remembering  that  God  must  work  in 
realms  we  cannot  touch,  and  to  issues  we  cannot 
reach,  before  our  poor  exertions  can  avail. 

May  we  not  apply  this  especially  to  the  educa- 
tion of  a  child's  life  ?  Many  who  read  these 
lines  are  engaged  in  building  structures  which 
will  outlive  the  Pyramids.  The  body  is  only  the 
scaffolding,  behind  and  tlirough  which  the  build- 
ing of  the  soul  is  being  upreared.  The  materials 
with  which  we  build  may  be  the  gold,  silver, 
and  precious  stones,  of  our  example,  precept, 
careful  watching,  and  discipline;  but  God  must 
come  in  to  hallow.  Our  strenuous  endeavor 
must  be  supplemented  by  the  incoming  of  the 
Holy  Spirit. 

God  hallows  by  His  indwelling.  Holiness  is 
the  result  of  His  putting  His  Name  into  a  place, 
a  day,  a  human  soul ;  for  His  Name  is  His  na- 
ture, Himself.  Each  day  may  be  a  building, 
reared  between  sunrise  and  sunset,  with  our  ac- 
tivities ;  but  it  were  vain  to  hope  to  realize  our 
ideal  unless  the  structure  become  a  temple  filled 
with  God.  Build  what  you  will ;  but  never  be 
satisfied  unless  God  sets  His  eyes  and  heart  upon 
your  life,  hallowing  and  sanctifying  each  day 
and  act  to  Himself. 


64 


Blessed  be  the  Lord  thy  God,  which  delighted  in 
thee.  I  Kings  x.  g. 

THERE  were  two  reasons  why  Solomon  was 
on  the  throne.  First,  because  of  God's  love  to 
him  ;  secondly,  because  of  God's  love  to  Israel. 
May  we  not  address  our  Saviour  with  similar  ex- 
pressions of  gladness  as  those  which  the  queen 
addressed  to  a  less  than  He? 

How  well  it  is,  now  and  again,  to  let  our- 
selves go  in  exuberant  adoration !  Prayer  is 
good,  but  it  may  revolve  too  largely  about  our 
own  needs  and  desires  :  thanks  are  right,  when 
we  have  received  great  benefits  at  His  hands ;  but 
praise  is  best,  because  the  heart  forgets  itself  and 
earth  and  time,  in  enlarged  conceptions  of  its 
adorable  Lover  and  Saviour. 

We  are  reminded  in  this  connection  of  a  noble 
hymn  of  old  John  Ryland  :  — 

"  Thou  Son  of  God,  and  Son  of  Man, 
Beloved,  adored  Emmanuel, 
Who  didst,  before  all  time  began. 
In  glory  with  Thy  Father  dwell : 

"  We  sing  Thy  love,  who  didst  in  time, 
For  us,  humanity  assume. 
To  answer  for  the  sinner's  crime, 
To  suffer  in  the  sinner's  room. 

"  The  ransomed  Church  Thy  glory  sings, 
The  hosts  of  heaven  Thy  will  obey ; 
And,  Lord  of  lords,  and  King  of  kings, 
We  celebrate  Thy  blessed  sway." 

We  can  never  praise  Him  enough.  Our  furthest 
thoughts  fall  short  of  the  reality.  His  wisdom 
and  prosperity  exceed  His  fame.  No  question 
He  cannot  answer;  no  desire  He  cannot  gratify  ; 
no  munificence  He  cannot  excel.  Happy  are 
they  who  stand  continually  before  Him.  Let  us 
see  that  this  is  our  happy  privilege  ;  not  content 
to  pay  Him  a  transient  visit,  returning  to  our 
own  land,  but  communing  with  Him  always  of 
that  which  is  in  our  heart. 
65 


His  wives  turned  away  his  heart. 

I  Kings  xi.  4. 

EVERY  man  is  vulnerable  at  one  point  of  his 
character.  Strong  everywhere  else,  and  armor- 
plated,  he  is  weak  there ;  and  our  great  enemy 
knows  just  where  to  strike  home.  It  would  have 
been  useless  to  argue  with  Solomon  for  the  claims 
of  idols.  He  could  at  once,  by  his  wisdom, 
have  annihilated  all  infidel  arguments,  and  have 
established  the  existence  and  unity  of  God. 
But,  step  by  step,  he  was  led  by  silken  cords,  a 
captive,  to  the  worship  of  other  gods.  It  is  a 
solemn  warning;  and  Nehemiah  was  perfectly 
justified  when,  in  his  contention  with  the  Jews 
who  had  married  wives  of  Ashdod,  of  Ammon, 
and  of  Moab,  he  said,  "Did  not  Solomon,  king 
of  Israel,  sin  by  these  things  ?  Yet  among  many 
nations  there  was  no  king  like  him  who  was  be- 
loved of  his  God." 

Let  young  people  beware  where  they  let  their 
hearts  go  forth  in  love.  Whom  we  love  we  re- 
semble ;  and  in  the  marriage  tie  it  is  almost  inev- 
itable that  seductions  to  the  lower  will  overcome 
the  drawings  to  the  higher.  When  a  Christian 
disobeys  God's  distinct  command  against  inter- 
marriage with  the  ungodly,  he  begins  to  sink  to 
the  level  of  his  ungodly  partner  whom  he  had 
thought  to  raise  to  his  own  religious  standing. 

Our  associates  determine  the  drift  and  current 
of  our  life.  It  is  so  easy  to  launch  upon  the  cur- 
rent that  flows  past  our  feet ;  it  seems  impossible 
that  the  laughing,  enticing  water  should  ever 
carry  us  against  sharp,  splintering  rocks,  or  over 
breaking  cataracts.  When  we  are  compelled  to 
associate  with  the  ungodly,  let  us  maintain  a 
strict  self- watch,  and  pray  that  the  breath  of  the 
heavenward  gale  may  more  than  counteract  the 
tendency  of  the  earthward  current. 


66 


The  vioiith  which  he  had  devised  of  his  0W7i  heart. 

I  Kings  xii.  33. 

JEROBOAM  acted  on  expediency.  It  did 
seem  reasonable  to  argue  that  the  constant  going 
up  to  Jerusalem  to  worsliip  might  alienate  the 
people  from  his  throne,  and  awaken  a  desire  for 
the  old  national  unity  ;  and  without  doubt  a  mere 
worldly  wisdom  extolled  his  setting-up  of  idol- 
gods  at  Bethel  and  Dan  ;  but  his  policy  in  this 
respect  led  to  the  downfall  of  his  kingdom.  Had 
he  trusted  God's  promise,  made  through  the 
prophet  Ahijah,  the  Divine  purpose  would  have 
ensured  the  continuance  of  his  rule;  but  the 
prompting  of  expediency  resulted  in  ultimate  dis- 
aster (ch.  xiv.). 

How  prone  we  all  are  to  devise  out  of  our  own 
hearts  !  We  take  counsel  with  ourselves,  and  do 
what  seems  prudent  and  farseeing,  with  the  in- 
evitable result  of  being  betrayed  into  courses  of 
action  that  God  cannot  approve,  and  of  which 
we  have  reason  to  repent  bitterly.  It  is  infinitely 
better  to  wait  on  God  till  He  develop  His  plan, 
as  He  most  certainly  will,  when  the  predestined 
hour  strikes.  He  who  trusts  in  his  own  heart, 
and  takes  his  own  way,  is  a  fool.  To  run  before 
God  is  to  sink  knee-deep  into  the  swamp.  We 
must  make  all  things  after  the  pattern  shown  us 
on  the  Mount,  and  take  our  time  from  God's 
almanac.  What  a  contrast  to  the  course  of  Jer- 
oboam was  that  of  the  Son  of  Man  !  He  would 
do  nothing  of  Himself.  His  eye  was  always  on 
His  Father's  dial-plate,  and  thus  He  knew  when 
His  time  was  not  yet  fulfilled.  He  was  always 
consulting  the  movement  of  His  Father's  will,  and 
did  only  those  things  which  He  saw  His  Father 
doing.  Similarly  make  God's  will  and  way  thy 
Pole-star.  Oh  to  be  able  to  say  with  our  blessed 
Lord,  "  I  seek  not  mine  own  will,  but  the  will  of 
Him  that  sent  Me' M 

67 


Forasmuch  as  thou  hast  been  disobedient^   .    .   . 
but  earnest  back.  i  Kings  xiii.  21,  22  (r.  v.). 

WE  are  inclined  at  first  sight  to  pity  this  un- 
known propliet,  and  to  justify  his  return;  but  as 
we  look  closer  into  the  story,  we  not  only  discover 
the  reason  for  the  severe  penalty  that  overtook 
him,  but  we  are  warned  lest  we  make  a  similar 
mistake.  When  we  have  received  a  direct  com- 
mand fresh  from  the  lips  of  Christ,  we  must  act 
on  it,  and  not  be  turned  aside  by  a  different  sug- 
gestion, made  to  us  through  the  lips  of  professing 
Christians.  God  does  not  vacillate  or  alter  in  the 
thing  which  proceeds  from  His  mouth.  When 
we  know  we  are  in  the  line  of  His  purpose,  we 
must  not  allow  ourselves  to  be  diverted  by  any 
appeal  or  threat,  from  whomsoever  it  may  ema- 
nate.    Deal  with  God  at  first-hand. 

The  rule  for  determining  the  true  worth  of  the 
advice  which  our  friends  proffer  us,  is  to  ask, 
first,  whether  it  conflicts  with  our  own  deep-seated 
conviction  of  God's  will ;  and,  secondly,  whether 
it  tends  to  the  ease  and  satisfaction  of  the  flesh, 
as  the  old  prophet's  suggestion  certainly  did. 
Beware  of  any  one  who  allures  you  with  the  bread 
and  water  that  are  to  break  your  fast.  That  bait 
is  likely  enough  to  disturb  the  balance  of  your 
judgment.  When  a  voice  says  spare  thyself,  be 
on  the  alert ;  it  savors  the  things  that  be  of  man, 
not  of  those  that  be  of  God. 

Learn  to  deal  with  God  at  first-hand.  Do  not 
run  hither  and  thither  to  human  teachers,  or  to 
the  Church.  Be  still  before  God,  and  what  He 
says  in  the  depths  of  thy  soul,  do.  His  Holy 
Spirit  shall  guide  you  into  all  truth ;  and  when 
once  His  way  has  been  revealed  to  thee,  go 
straight  on,  listening  to  no  other  voice,  however 
much  it  professes  Divine  inspiration. 


68 


/  am  setit  to  thee  with  heavy  tidings. 

I  Kings  xiv.  6. 

HOW  foolish  !  Jeroboam  thought  that  the 
old  prophet  could  penetrate  the  vail  that  hid  the 
future,  but  not  the  disguise  in  which  his  wife 
wished  to  conceal  herself.  As  we  might  have  ex- 
pected, the  aged  prophet's  inner  sight  read  her 
heart.  From  God  no  secrets  are  hid.  Immedi- 
ately on  His  accosting  her  by  her  name  there 
came  the  dread  announcement  of  inevitable  dis- 
aster. 

We  must  not  hesitate  to  unfold  all  the  conse- 
quences of  sin.  As  watchmen  on  the  walls,  we 
are  bound  to  tell  men  of  the  certain  fearful  look- 
ing for  of  fiery  indignation  which  shall  devour 
the  transgressors.  None  of  us  should  flinch  from 
declaring  the  whole  counsel  of  God.  We  should 
specially  insist  on  the  gidit  side  of  sin.  Not 
only  that  it  is  a  misfortune,  a  mistake,  an  error,  a 
disease,  a  tyranny  ;  but  a  crime.  The  sinner  is 
a  criminal,  who  has  incurred  the  just  wrath  and 
anger  of  a  holy  God  :  for  which  he  must  suffer  a 
due  recompense. 

Oh  for  more  tenderness  that  we  may  with  tears 
warn  men  of  their  doom  !  We  are  so  self-pos- 
sessed, so  stolid ;  we  need  to  ask  that  our  eyes, 
like  Jeremiah's,  should  be  fountains  of  tears, 
that  we  might  weep  day  and  night.  If  the  tid- 
ings are  heavy,  let  us  first  feel  their  pressure  on 
our  own  hearts  ;  let  us  bend  over  the  regions  of 
despair  and  darkness,  and  hear  the  bitter  weep- 
ing, wailing,  and  gnashing  of  teeth,  and  come 
back  to  warn  our  brethren,  lest  they  also  come  to 
that  place  of  torment.  Though  it  was  with  fear 
and  much  trembling  that  Paul  preached  the 
Gospel,  yet  he  did  not  shun  to  declare  the  whole 
counsel  of  God.  And  while  we  go  to  men  with 
the  good  tidings  of  salvation,  we  must  not  with- 
hold the  heavy  tidings  from  those  who  persist  in 
unbelief. 


Asa  did  .   .   .  righf  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord,  as 
did  David  his  father.  i  Kings  xv.  n. 

IT  is  a  great  thing  to  have  such  a  testimony  as 
this.  We  may  do  right  in  our  own  eyes  ;  yet 
the  eye  of  the  Lord  may  detect  evil  which 
neither  our  associates  nor  we  have  seen.  We 
may  deceive  ourselves,  we  may  deceive  others ; 
but  we  cannot  deceive  God.  In  the  home  or 
business,  in  situation  or  factory,  let  us  live  as 
under  the  searching  gaze  of  God. 

Asa's  life  was  one  of  religious  activity :  he 
destroyed  the  idols  of  his  father,  and  even  de- 
posed his  queen-mother,  "  because  she  made  an 
idol  in  a  grove."  It  needs  Divine  courage  so  to 
live  for  God  that  at  home  or  afield  men  shall  take 
knowledge  of  us  that  we  have  been  with  Jesus. 
This  is  what  the  world  is  languishing  for — reality, 
consistency  under  all  circumstances,  and  before 
all  men. 

There  are,  however,  two  clouds  overhanging 
this  otherwise  briglit  life.  "  The  high  places 
were  not  removed"  (14).  Though  idols  were 
destroyed,  the  groves  in  which  they  were  erected 
remained.  They  were  no  snare  to  him  ;  and  he 
took  care  that  during  his  life  they  should  not  en- 
snare others;  but  after  his  death,  in  the  reign  of 
Jehoshaphat  his  son,  "the  people  offered  and 
burned  incense  "  in  them  (xxii.  43).  We  must 
not  only  cleanse  our  way  before  the  Lord,  but 
remove  any  evil  thing  which  may  cause  others  to 
stumble. 

The  other  cloud  is  indicated  in  2  Chron.  xvi. 
12:  "He  was  diseased  in  his  feet  .  .  .  Yet  in 
his  disease  he  sought  not  to  the  Lord,  but  to  the 
physicians."  Strange  that  in  affliction  he  should 
not  have  turned  to  the  Great  Physician.  The 
enemy  of  souls  is  ever  on  the  watch.  Pray  that 
amid  the  pains  of  death,  you  may  not  act  un- 
worthily. 

70 


Ahab  did  more  to  provoke  the  Lord  to  anger  than 
all  the  kings.  i  Kings  xvi.  jj. 

HIS  sin  was  very  aggravated,  largely  through 
the  influence  of  Jezebel,  his  young  and  beauti- 
ful wife,  who  introduced  the  abominations  of 
Phoenician  idol-worship.  This  is  why  he  is  said 
to  have  exceeded  his  predecessors  in  wickedness. 
They  broke  the  second  commandment,  and  wor- 
shipped Jehovah  under  the  form  of  a  calf.  Ahab 
and  Jezebel  broke  the  fust,  and  chose  other  gods 
— Baal,  the  sun,  and  Ashtoreth,  the  moon.  The 
inveterate  love  for  this  idolatry  was  connected 
with  licentious  rites  with  which  these  deities  were 
served.  What  wonder  that  the  land  became  cor- 
rupt when  the  fountains  of  its  religious  life  were 
polluted  at  the  source  ? 

The  connection  between  the  indulgence  of  im- 
purity and  the  declension  of  the  spiritual  life,  is 
very  close.  As  the  apostle  Paul  tells  us  in  Ro- 
mans i.,  the  men  that  refuse  to  retain  God  in 
their  knowledge  are  given  up  to  the  working  of 
passion  ;  and  as  they  yield  to  passion  they  lose 
the  sweet,  clear  impression  of  the  truth  and  near- 
ness of  the  Christ.  The  first,  second,  and  third 
thing  to  be  said  to  young  people  on  venturing 
out  into  the  world,  corrupt  through  many  deceit- 
ful lusts,  is,  Be  pure.  Wear  the  white  flower  of 
a  blameless  life.  If  you  cannot  be  faultless,  be 
blameless.  If  you  cannot  realize  all  the  good 
you  know,  at  least  refrain  from  all  the  evil. 
Keep  your  robes  unspotted  from  the  world.  Then 
through  purity  of  heart  and  obedience  in  life, 
you  shall  see  God.  As  the  living  Christ  enters 
the  heart,  He  will  drive  before  Him  the  brute 
forms  of  evil,  overthrow  the  tables  of  the  money- 
changers, and  will  sit  to  teach  of  God.  Give 
yourself  unreservedly  into  His  keeping,  that  He 
may  govern  and  control  every  avenue  of  your 
life. 

71 


/  have   commanded  the   ravens    .   .   .  a   widow 
woman   .   .  .  there.  i  Kings  xvii.  4,  g. 

WE  must  be  where  God  desires. — Elijah  spoke 
of  himself  as  always  standing  before  the  Lord 
God  of  Israel.  He  deemed  himself  as  much  a 
courtier  in  the  royal  palace  as  Gabriel  (Luke  i. 
19).  And  he  could  as  distinctly  stand  before 
God  when  hiding  beside  Cherith,  or  sheltering  in 
the  widow's  house  at  Zarephath,  as  when  he  stood 
erect  on  Carmel,  or  listened  to  the  voice  of  God 
at  Horeb.  Wherever  you  go,  and  whatever  min- 
istry you  are  called  to  undertake,  glory  in  this, 
that  you  never  go  to  any  greater  distance  from 
God. 

If  we  are  where  God  wants  us  to  be.  He  will 
see  to  the  supply  of  our  need.  It  is  as  easy  for 
Him  to  feed  us  by  the  ravens  as  by  the  widow 
woman.  As  long  as  God  says,  Stay  here,  or 
there,  be  sure  that  He  is  pledged  to  provide  for 
you.  Though  you  resemble  a  lonely  sentinel  in 
some  distant  post  of  missionary  service,  God  will 
see  to  you.  The  ravens  are  not  less  amenable  to 
His  command  than  of  old  :  and  out  of  the  stores 
of  widow  women  He  is  as  able  to  supply  your 
need  as  He  did  Elijah's,  at  Zarephath. 

How  often  God  teaches  best  in  seclusion  and 
solitude  /  It  is  by  the  murmuring  brooks  of  na- 
ture that  we  have  our  deepest  lessons.  It  is  in 
the  homes  of  the  poor  that  we  are  fitted  for  our 
greatest  tasks.  It  is  beside  couches  where  chil- 
dren suffer  and  die,  that  we  receive  those  prep- 
arations of  the  heart  which  avail  us  when  the 
bugle  note  summons  us  to  some  difficult  post. 

God  leads  through  death  to  life. — It  was  need- 
ful that  the  child  should  die,  that  sin  might  be 
remembered  and  dealt  with  ;  but  through  Death's 
portal  the  trio  entered  a  richer,  fuller  life.  Fear 
not  that  gateway  ! 


So  Ahab  ivent  up  to  eat  and  dr'uik.     And  Elijah 
went  up  to  the  top  of  Car?neL      i  Kings  xviii.  ^f2. 

SUCH  differences  obtain  still.  The  children 
of  this  world  and  the  children  of  light  are  mani- 
fest. What  though  the  bodies  of  four  hundred 
and  fifty  prophets  lay  slain  in  the  gorge  of  the 
Kishon  ;  or  that  by  one  great  act  Elijah  had  hewn 
down  the  upas  tree,  the  deadly  influence  of  which 
had  corrupted  Palestine  ;  or  that  the  long-expected 
rain  was  in  the  air — yet  Ahab  must  eat  and  drink. 
These  are  the  things  which  the  children  of  the 
world  seek  after.  Watch  and  pray,  lest  you  en- 
ter into  this  temptation.  Let  appetite  be  kept 
well  in  hand — your  servant,  not  your  master ;  and 
see  to  it  that  you  are  capable  of  such  profound 
and  absorbing  interest  in  the  things  of  the  King- 
dom of  God,  as  to  count  the  gratification  of  phys- 
ical desire  unworthy  to  be  compared  with  the 
high  delights  of  service,  prayer,  and  communion 
with  the  unseen. 

Though  he  must  have  been  exhausted  with  the 
excitements  and  efforts  of  the  day,  Elijah  must 
spend  the  evening  hour  with  God.  Though  he 
knew  that  the  rain  was  near,  he  felt  that  his 
prayers  were  a  needful  condition  for  its  bestow- 
ment.  Though  any  part  of  Carmel  might  have 
become  his  oratory,  he  sought  the  lonely  solitudes 
of  the  summit  with  the  outspread  sea  before  him, 
that  his  soul  might  hold  undisturbed  vigil,  and 
that  he  might  see  over  the  wide  expanse  of  the 
ocean  the  first  tokens  of  the  coming  answer.  His 
attitude  denoted  his  humility.  His  repeated  in- 
junction to  the  lad,  his  perseverance.  His  suc- 
cess approved  his  faith. 

Stand,  O  suppliant  soul,  on  the  highest  point 
of  expectant  hope;  see  the  hurrying  answer, 
which  was  being  prepared  from  pools  and  lakes 
and  seas,  long  ere  thy  prayer  began.  "Before 
they  call,  I  will  answer." 

73 


Behold,  an  a?igel  touched  him. 

I  Kings  xix.  j". 

IN  all  probability  the  angels  often  touch  us 
when  danger  is  near,  threatening  our  health  and 
life,  or  when  foul  fiends  step  up  to  us  with  hid- 
eous temptation.  They  find  us  out,  especially 
when,  like  Elijah,  we  are  alone  and  depressed ; 
when  nervous  depression  has  crept  about  our 
hearts;  when  we  seem  to  have  failed  in  the  con- 
flict against  evil  and  long  for  death  to  end  our 
long  and  weary  strife.  It  was  the  lament  of  a 
holy  soul  on  the  verge  of  eternity,  that  he  had 
made  so  little  of  the  ministry  of  God's  holy  and 
tender  angels. 

It  was  very  gracious  for  God  to  deal  thus  with 
His  servant.  We  might  have  expected  rebuke  or 
remonstrance,  chiding  or  chastisement;  but  we 
would  hardly  have  expected  such  loving,  gentle 
treatment  as  this.  Is  this  the  man  who  defied 
Ahab  and  all  his  priests?  He  is  as  frail  and  im- 
potent as  any  !  Nay,  but  God  looked  beneath 
the  surface  depression,  and  detected  the  strong 
fountains  of  courage  and  devotion  that  lay  be- 
neath, only  capable  of  being  called  again  into  in- 
tense manifestation.  He  knew  His  servant's 
frame,  and  recognized  that  he  was  dust.  He 
knew  how  to  distinguish  between  the  passing 
overstrain  of  the  body  and  the  heroic  temper  of 
the  spirit.  So,  He  understands  us  in  our  fits  of 
depression  and  despair. 

Whenever  these  angel-fingers  touch  you,  whether 
directly  or  through  the  medium  of  loving  mortal 
hands,  you  will  always  find  the  cake  and  the  cruse 
of  water.  God  never  awakens  to  disappoint.  It 
is  an  infinite  pleasure  to  Him  to  awaken  His  loved 
ones  to  good  things,  which  they  had  neither 
asked  nor  thought.  Will  not  dying  be  something 
like  this !  The  angel  of  life  will  touch  us,  and 
we  shall  awake  to  see  what  love  has  prepared. 

74 


As  thy  servant  was  busy  here  and  there ^  he  was 
gone.  I  Kings  XX.  40. 

THIS  was  likely  enough  to  happen  on  a  bat- 
tlefield. It  would  not  be  possible  to  hold  your 
prisoner,  and  to  busy  yourself  about  other  things 
at  the  same  time.  This  man,  in  the  prophet's 
parable,  made  a  great  mistake  to  concern  himself 
about  a  number  of  trifles,  when  so  serious  a  mat- 
ter as  his  own  life  depended  on  giving  all  his  at- 
tention to  the  custodianship  of  the  prisoner  en- 
trusted to  his  care.  But  is  it  not  thus  that  men 
miss  the  main  end  of  life? 

Busy  here  a?id  there  aiid  life  is  gone. — Many 
spend  their  days  in  mere  trivialities.  Like  chil- 
dren they  dig  in  the  sand ;  like  the  butterfly  they 
flit  from  flower  to  flower.  A  round  of  visits,  a 
few  novels,  a  good  many  hours  of  light  gaiety; 
vanity,  fashion,  and  amusement;  these  fill  their 
hours,  the  days  flash  by,  and  life  is  gone.  They 
have  nothing  to  show  for  it. 

Busy  here  and  there ^  and  the  chance  of  saving 
others  is  gofte. — Lives  touch  lives,  for  the  chief 
purpose  that  one  should  influence  the  other.  But 
too  often  we  deal  only  with  superficialities,  busy- 
ing ourselves  in  the  slightest  interests,  but  not 
seeking  the  salvation  of  those  with  whom  we  as- 
sociate. The  dance,  the  game,  the  business  rela- 
tionship, monopolize  our  thought,  and  our  friends 
are  swept  from  us  in  the  eddying  whirl  of  life's 
battle,  and  are  gone. 

Busy  here  a?id  there,  and  the  knowledge  of  God 
is  gone. — Remember  how  the  birds  caught  away 
the  seed  of  the  Kingdom ;  and  be  sure  that,  in 
the  same  way,  the  cares  and  riches  of  this  world, 
and  the  lusts  of  other  things  may  enter  in,  and 
destroy  the  impression  made  on  the  heart.  The 
ephemeral  interests  of  life  press  hard  on  its  real 
interests.  Like  boys,  we  squander  in  trifling  the 
hours  given  to  prepare  for  an  examination  on 
which  all  the  future  must  turn. 
75 


And  Ahab  said  to  Elijah^  Hast  thou  found  me  ^ 
O  niifie  enemy  ?  i  Kings  xxi.  20. 

AHAB  got  his  garden  of  herbs,  but  he  had 
Elijah  withal,  who  stood  at  the  gate  like  an  in- 
carnate conscience.  Men  may  get  the  prize  on 
which  they  have  set  their  heart ;  but  if  they  have 
obtained  it  wrongfully,  the  conscience  of  the 
wrong  done  will  haunt  them,  and  take  away  the 
pleasure  on  which  they  counted,  and  ultimately 
bring  them  like  a  quarry  to  the  ground. 

We  turn  our  best  friends  into  enemies,  as  Ahab 
did  Elijah.  The  cloud  that  lights  Israel  is  dark- 
ness to  Pharaoh  ;  the  angel  that  protects  Jerusa- 
lem, slays  the  host  of  Sennacherib;  the  gentle 
love  which  anoints  the  Saviour,  instigates  in 
Judas  a  jealousy  which  ends  in  murder.  The 
God  who  shows  Himself  merciful  to  the  merciful 
is  froward  to  the  froward.  The  cause  of  the  al- 
teration is  to  be  sought  within  ourselves.  The 
sun  that  melts  wax  hardens  clay,  but  the  differ- 
ence is  in  the  clay.  To  the  widow  of  Zarephath 
Elijah  was  an  angel  of  light ;  whilst  to  Ahab  he 
was  an  enemy.  The  difference  lay  in  their 
hearts ;  the  one  being  holy  and  loving,  the  other 
dark  and  turbid.  What  you  are,  determines 
whether  Elijah  will  be  your  friend  or  your 
enemy. 

This  word  **  sold  thyself "  is  very  awful.  It 
underlies  Goethe's  tragedy  of  Faust,  in  which 
the  soul  sells  itself  to  the  devil  for  so  many  years 
of  worldly  pleasure.  A  few  promises  which  are 
never  kept ;  a  mirage  that  is  dissipated  in  thin 
air  when  we  approach  it;  a  bribe  of  gold  or 
silver  that  burns  the  hands  which  receive  it — 
such  are  the  price  for  which  men  sell  themselves. 
"They  sell  themselves  for  nought."  Truly  the 
devil  drives  a  hard  bargain.  When  he  gets  the 
soul  into  his  power,  he  laughs  at  his  former 
promises,  and  pays  as  wages,  death. 

70 


A  certain  man  .   .   .  smote  the  king  of  Israel  be- 
tivcen  the  joints  of  the  harness,    i  Kings  xxii.  J4. 

EVERY  man  we  meet  is  clothed  in  armor ;  in 
other  words,  we  all  cover  ourselves  with  plates  on 
which  to  receive  the  thrust  of  accusation  and  re- 
proach. *'  I  only  do  as  others."  *'  I  do  not  see 
any  special  harm  in  it."  "  My  father  did  it  be- 
fore me."  "  I  cannot  help  it."  Such  are  some 
of  the  plates  in  the  armor  of  the  soul ;  and  our 
work  as  Christian  workers  becomes  abortive  in  so 
many  instances,  because  we  are  content  to  be- 
labor the  plates,  instead  of  striking  home  to  the 
one  place  where  the  armor -joints  are.  Successful 
soul-winning  depends  on  discovering  the  vulner- 
able part  of  a  man,  and  striking  there.  But  all 
this  demands  a  very  special  discernment  of  spirits, 
and  anointing  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Only  so  can 
we  detect  where  best  to  bring  about  conviction, 
and  make  men  know  their  need  of  the  Gospel  of 
God's  grace.  The  great  need  of  the  present  day 
is  a  sharper  and  more  searching  analysis  of  sin. 
Men  need  to  be  shown  how  they  are  violating  the 
Laws  of  God.  They  assent  generally  to  the 
Scriptural  statements  of  what  God  requires,  but 
fail  to  realize  how  greatly  they  have  come  short. 
You  are  almost  sure  to  hit,  if  you  begin  to  show 
the  various  ways  in  which  respectably-living  peo- 
ple are  coming  under  the  Divine  sentence. 

But  several  conditions  must  be  fulfilled,  (i) 
Study  well  your  own  heart.  (2)  Be  a  deep  stu- 
dent of  the  biographies  of  Scripture.  Because 
every  type  of  human  character  is  delineated  in 
Holy  Writ.  (3)  Open  your  heart  to  the  Holy 
Ghosty  through  whom  alone  you  can  discern 
spirits.  He  is  a  discerner  of  the  thoughts  of  the 
heart,  and  will  teach  you  to  cut  to  the  dividing 
asunder  of  the  soul  and  spirit,  and  of  the  joints 
and  marrow. 


n 


Thou  man  of  God  ! 

2  Kings  i.  g,  ii,  13. 

OH  that  thou  and  I  might  so  live  before  God 
and  men,  that  they  should  recognize  us  as  men  of 
God,  as  God's  men  !  See  how  these  ungodly 
captains  at  once  recognized  this,  in  the  case  of 
Elijah.  They  fretted  and  chafed  against  his 
holiness ;  but  they  were  forced  to  admit  it.  They 
tried  to  impose  their  orders,  or  those  of  their 
king ;  but  they  realized  that  Elijah  was  the  serv- 
ant of  Kim  whom  they  set  at  nought,  so  far  as 
their  own  lives  were  concerned. 

If  we  are  really  men  of  God,  we  shall  be  the 
last  to  assume  the  title.  Notice  that  Elijah  puts 
an  if  before  the  title  with  which  he  was  saluted  : 
**  If  1  be  a  man  of  God."  Paul  counted  him- 
self the  least  of  all  saints. 

We  must  be  of  God. — All  our  goodness  must 
originate  in  Him.  We  can  no  more  boast  of 
goodness  than  a  chamber  can  boast  of  the  light 
which  irradiates  each  corner  of  its  space.  The 
faith  that  takes  His  grace,  as  well  as  the  grace  it 
takes,  is  His.  We  are  absolutely  His  debtors ; 
and  happy  are  they  who  love  to  have  it  so,  and 
lie  always  at  the  Beautiful  Gate  of  God's  heart, 
expecting  to  receive  alms  at  His  hand. 

We  must  be  for  God. — This  is  the  only  cure 
for  self-consciousness,  for  that  perpetual  obtrusion 
of  the  self-life  which  is  our  bane  and  curse.  Ask 
that  the  Holy  Spirit  may  fill  you  with  so  absorb- 
ing a  passion  for  the  glory  of  Jesus,  that  there 
may  be  no  room  to  think  of  your  own  reputation 
or  emolument. 

We  must  be  in  God,  and  God  in  us. — This  is 
possible,  when  we  love  perfectly.  He  that  dwell- 
eth  in  love,  dwelleth  in  God,  and  God  in  him. 
Oh,  sea  of  light,  may  we  lie  spread  out  in  thy 
translucent  waves,  as  the  sponges  in  southern 
sapphire  seas,  till  every  fibre  of  our  being  be  per- 
meated and  infilled  ! 

78 


Elisha,  tarry  here,  I  pray  thee. 

2  Kivgs  a.  2y  4,  6. 

THRICE  Elijah  spoke  thus  to  his  friend  and 
disciple,  to  test  him.  Perseverance,  tenacity  of 
purpose,  a  refusal  to  be  content  with  anything 
short  of  the  best,  are  indispensable  conditions  for 
the  attainment  of  the  highest  possibilities  of  ex- 
perience and  service.  And  perpetually  in  our 
life's  discipline  these  words  come  back  on  us, 
Tarry  here  !  Not  that  God  desires  us  to  tarry, 
but  because  He  desires  each  onward  step  to  be 
the  choice  and  act  of  our  own  will. 

Tarry  here  in  Consecration. — "You  have 
given  so  much  ;  is  it  not  time  that  you  refrained 
from  further  sacrifices?  Ungird  your  loins,  sit 
down  and  rest,  forbear  from  this  strenuous  fol- 
lowing after.  Spare  thyself;  this  shall  not  come 
to  thee." 

Tarry  here  in  the  Life  of  Prayer. — "It  is 
waste  time  to  spend  so  much  time  at  the  foot- 
stool of  God.  You  have  done  more  than  most, 
desist  from  further  intercession  and  supplication." 

Tarry  here  in  the  attainment  of  the  likeness  of 
Christ. — "  It  will  cost  you  so  much,  if  all  that  is 
not  Chrisllike  is  to  pass  away  from  your  life." 

Such  voices  are  perpetually  speaking  to  us  all. 
And  if  we  heed  them,  we  are  at  once  shut  out  of 
that  crossing  the  Jordan,  that  rapturous  inter- 
course with  heaven,  that  reception  of  the  double 
portion  of  the  Spirit,  which  await  those  who  have 
successfully  stood  the  test.  The  law  of  the 
Christian  life  is  always  Advance ;  always  leaving 
that  which  is  behind  ;  always  reckoning  that  you 
have  not  attained ;  always  following  on  to  know 
the  Lord,  growing  in  grace  and  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  blessed  Saviour,  and  saying  to  the  Spirit  of 
God,  as  Elisha  to  Elijah,  I  will  fiot  leave  thee. 
79 


Ye  shall  not  see  wind^  neither  shall  ye  see  rain  ; 
yet  that  valley  shall  be  filled.       2  Kings  Hi.  jy. 

THIS  is  God's  way  of  fulfilling  the  desire  of 
them  that  fear  Him.  We  like  to  see  the  clouds 
blown  forward  through  the  sky,  and  hear  the 
moan  of  the  rising  wind  ;  in  other  words,  we  like 
to  see  God's  gifts  on  their  way,  or  to  have  tlie 
sensible  emotion  of  receiving  them.  Sometimes 
we  have  symptoms  and  signs  that  fill  us  with 
rapture ;  at  other  times,  these  are  lacking ;  and 
we  surrender  ourselves  to  despair.  Yet  when  we 
see  neither  wind  nor  rain,  God  may  be  most 
mightily  at  work. 

//  is  so  ill  Church  work. — How  often  we  make 
our  valleys  full  of  ditches  !  Our  machinery  is 
complicated  and  perfect ;  we  have  spread  neither 
pains  nor  care.  Then  we  ardently  desire  the 
signs  of  a  powerful  revival,  and  break  our  hearts 
if  they  are  not  apparent ;  while,  all  the  time,  if 
we  only  knew  it,  the  Divine  blessing  is  welling 
up  in  the  ditches,  doing  more  than  would  be  the 
case  if  our  highest  wishes  were  gratified.  Here 
and  there  tears  are  falling  silently,  hearts  are 
being  cleansed,  lives  are  becoming  yielded  to 
God. 

//  is  so  in  Christian  experience. — We  expect  to 
have  our  Pentecost  as  the  early  Church  received 
hers.  We  desire  to  see  wind  and  rain,  and  to 
know  that  God  is  baptizing  us ;  but  this  is  not 
granted.  There  is  no  footfall  of  hurrying  clouds, 
no  coronet  of  flame,  no  gift  of  tongues.  But, 
deep  down,  the  ditches  are  being  filled  up, 
yearnings  are  being  satisfied,  the  capacity  for  God 
within  us  is  being  met,  though  it  grows  apace. 
God  be  praised  that  the  success  of  His  work  is 
not  gauged  by  outward  signs  ! 

A  well  may  be  filled  as  completely  by  the 
percolation  of  water,  a  drop  at  a  time,  as  by  turn- 
ing a  river  into  it. 

80 


And  the  oil  stayed. 

2  Kings  iv.  6. 

WHAT  a  sorrowful  confession  !  There  was  no 
reason  why  it  should  stay.  There  was  as  much 
oil  as  ever,  and  the  power  which  had  made  so 
much  could  have  gone  on  without  limit  or  ex- 
haustion. The  only  reason  for  the  ceasing  of 
the  oil  was  in  the  failure  of  the  vessels.  The 
widow  and  her  sons  had  secured  only  a  limited 
number  of  vessels,  and  therefore  there  was  only  a 
limited  supply  of  the  precious  oil. 

This  is  why  so  many  of  God  V  promises  are 
unfulfilled  in  your  experience. — In  former  days 
you  kept  claiming  their  fulfillment ;  frequently 
you  brought  God's  promises  to  Him  and  said, 
*'  Do  as  Thou  hast  said."  Vessel  after  vessel  of 
need  was  brought  empty  and  taken  away  full. 
But  of  late  years  you  have  refrained,  you  have 
rested  on  your  oars,  you  have  ceased  to  bring  the 
vessels  of  your  need.  Hence  the  dwindling 
supply. 

This  is  why  your  life  is  not  so  productive  of 
blessing  as  it  ?night  be. — You  do  not  bring  vessels 
enough.  You  think  that  God  has  wrought  as 
much  through  you  as  He  can  or  will.  You  do 
not  expect  Him  to  fill  the  latter  years  of  your  life 
as  He  did  the  former.  You  can  trust  Him  for 
two  sermons  a  week,  but  not  the  five  or  six. 

This  is  why  the  blessing  of  a  revival  stays  in 
its  course. — As  long  as  the  missioner  remains 
with  us,  we  can  look  for  the  continuance  of  bless- 
ing. But  after  awhile  we  say.  Let  the  services 
stop;  they  have  run  their  course,  and  fulfilled 
their  end.  And  forthwith  the  blessing  stops  in 
mid-flow.  Let  us  go  on  pleading  with  the  un- 
saved, and  bringing  the  empty  vessels  of  our  poor 
effort  for  God  to  fill  them  up  to  the  full  measure 
of  their  capacity. 

81 


Like  unto  the  flesh  of  a  little  child. 

2  Kings  V.  14. 

IS  there  any  fabric  woven  on  the  loom  of  time 
to  be  compared  in  perfect  beauty  to  the  flesh  of  a 
little  child,  on  which,  as  yet,  no  scar  or  blemish 
can  be  traced  ?  So  sweet,  so  pure,  so  clean.  It 
was  a  wonderful  combination,  that  the  strong 
muscles  and  make  of  the  mighty  man  of  war 
should  blend  with  the  flesh  of  a  child.  But  this 
may  be  ours  also,  if  we  will  let  the  hand  of  Jesus 
pass  over  our  leprous-smitten  souls.  At  this 
moment,  if  you  let  Him,  He  will  touch  you  and 
say,  "Be  clean,"  and  immediately  the  leprosy 
will  depart,  and  you  will  return  to  the  days  of 
your  youth — not  forgiven  only,  but  cleansed — 
not  pardoned  only,  but  clad  in  the  beauty  of  the 
Lord  your  God,  which  He  will  put  on  you. 

We  do  not  count  a  little  child  to  be  free  from 
the  taint  of  sin.  It  is  conceived  in  sin,  and 
inherits  the  evil  tendencies  of  our  fallen  race. 
Its  innocence  of  evil  is  not  holiness.  Jesus  gives 
us  more  than  innocence.  He  makes  us  pure  and 
holy.  But  there  are  other  childlike  qualities 
which  our  Saviour  gives.  The  humility  of  a  little 
child,  who  is  unconscious  of  itself,  and  who  is  not 
perpetually  looking  for  admiration.  The  unselfish- 
ness of  a  little  child,  who  seeks  its  companion  to 
share  its  luxuries  and  games.  The  tnist  of  a 
little  child,  which  so  naturally  clings  to  a  strong 
and  loving  heart,  willing  to  follow  anywhere,  to 
believe  in  anything.  The  love  of  a  little  child, 
who  responds  to  every  endearment  with  sunny 
laughter  and  soft  caresses. 

There  is  a  great  difference  between  childish  and 
childlike.  The  former  is  put  away,  as  we  grow 
up  into  Christ :  the  latter  we  grow  into,  as  we 
become  more  like  our  Lord.  The  oldest  angels 
are  the  youngest :  the  ripest  saints  are  the  most 
childlike. 

82 


Behold  the  mou72tain  was  full  of  horses  and  char- 
iots of  fire  round  about  Klisha.      2  Kings  vi.  ij. 

SO  it  is  with  each  of  God's  saints.  We  can- 
not see,  because  of  the  imperfection  of  mortal 
vision,  the  harnessed  squadrons  of  fire  and  light ; 
but  the  Angel  of  the  Lord  encampeth  round  about 
them  that  fear  Him,  and  delivereth  them.  If 
our  eyes  were  opened,  we  should  see  the  angel- 
hosts  as  an  encircling  fence  of  fire  ;  but  whether 
we  see  them  or  not,  they  are  certainly  there. 

God  is  between  us  and  temptation. — However 
strong  the  foe,  God  is  stronger.  However  swift 
the  descending  blow,  God  is  swifter  to  catch  and 
ward  off.  However  weak  we  are,  through  long 
habits  of  yielding,  God  is  greater  than  our  hearts, 
and  can  keep  in  perfect  peace.  "Trust  ye  in 
the  Lord  forever ;  for  in  the  Lord  Jehovah  is  the 
Rock  of  Ages." 

God  is  between  tis  and  the  hate  of  ma7i. — Dare 
to  believe  that  there  is  an  invisible  wall  of  pro- 
tection between  you  and  all  that  men  devise 
against  you.  What  though  the  heathen  rage,  and 
the  people  imagine  a  vain  thing  !  No  weapon 
that  is  formed  against  you  shall  prosper,  and 
every  tongue  that  shall  rise  in  judgment  shall  be 
condemned. 

God  is  between  you  and  the  deluge  of  care. — 
What  thousands  are  beset  with  that  dark  spectre  ! 
They  have  no  rest  or  peace  either  day  or  night, 
saying,  "Where  will  the  next  rent,  the  next 
meal,  come  from?"  How  different  the  life  of 
birds,  and  flowers,  of  children,  of  Jesus,  and  all 
holy  souls.  Oh,  rest  in  the  Lord,  and  put  Him 
between  you  and  black  care. 

God  is  between  you  and  the  pursuit  of  your 
past. — He  is  your  reward  ;  and  as  He  intercepted 
the  pursuit  of  Pharaoh,  so  He  stands  at  Calvary 
between  your  past  and  you.  The  assay er  of  ret- 
ribution is  arrested  by  that  Divine  Victim — what 
more  can  we  ask  ! 

83 


This  day  is  a  day  of  good  tidings. 

2  Kings  vii.  g. 

IT  was  indeed.  The  enemy  that  had  so  long 
hemmed  them  in  had  dispersed,  leaving  a  great 
spoil  behind.  The  famine  which  had  driven  the 
people  to  awful  straits  was  at  an  end,  and  there 
was  now  plenty  of  everything.  It  was  inhuman 
for  these  four  lepers  to  be  content  with  eating 
and  drinking,  and  sharing  out  the  spoil,  when 
hard  by  a  city  was  in  agony.  Common  humanity 
bade  them  give  information  of  what  had  hap- 
pened. 

Let  us  take  care  lest  some  mischief  befall  us,  if 
we  withhold  the  blessed  Gospel  from  a  dying 
world.  We  know  that  Jesus  has  died  and  risen 
again,  and  that  His  unsearchable  riches  wait  for 
appropriation.  We  have  availed  ourselves  of  the 
offer  ;  but  let  us  see  to  it  that  so  far  as  we  can, 
we  are  making  known  that  the  wine  and  milk 
may  be  obtained  without  money  and  without  price. 

Mischief  always  overtakes  a  selfish  policy ; 
whereas  those  who  dare  to  share  with  others  what 
they  have  received,  not  only  keep  what  they 
have,  but  find  the  fragments  enough  for  many 
days  afterward. 

Let  us  tell  men  that  the  Saviour  has  overcome 
our  foes,  and  has  opened  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
to  all  who  believe.  Let  us  speak  from  a  full 
heart  of  all  that  He  has  proved  to  be.  Let  us  in- 
vite men  to  share  with  us  the  grace  which  hath 
neither  shore  nor  bound. 

One  ounce  of  testimony  is  worth  a  ton  weight 
of  argument,  and  overpowers  all  objection.  The 
Lord,  on  whom  the  king  leaned,  derided  the  pos- 
sibility of  the  prophet's  prediction ;  and  no 
doubt  had  plenty  of  adherents.  But  the  leper's 
report  swept  all  His  words  to  the  winds.  They 
had  known,  tasted,  and  handled.  Let  us  remem- 
ber that  we  are  called  to  be  witnesses  of  what 
God  hath  done  for  us. 

84 


And  the  Man  of  God  wept. 

2  Kings  viii.  ii. 

ELISHA  foresaw  all  the  evil  that  Hazael  would 
inflict  on  Israel,  and  it  moved  him  to  tears. 
Though  he  was  a  strong  man,  able  to  move  king- 
doms by  his  message  and  prayer,  yet  he  was  of  a 
tender  and  compassionate  disposition.  This  was 
he  who  one  moment  upbraided  the  king  of  Israel 
for  his  crimes,  and  the  next  called  for  a  minstrel 
to  calm  his  perturbed  spirit  with  strains  of  music. 
The  men  that  can  move  others  are  themselves 
very  susceptible  and  easily  moved. 

The  nearer  we  live  to  God,  the  more  we  de- 
serve to  be  known  as  men  and  women  of  God, 
the  more  will  our  tears  flow  for  the  slain  of  the 
daughters  of  our  people.  Consider  the  ravages 
that  drink,  and  impurity,  and  gambling,  are 
making  among  our  people ;  enumerate  the  homes 
that  are  desolate,  the  young  life  that  is  wrecked 
as  it  is  leaving  the  harbor,  the  awful  dishonor 
done  to  woman  ;  and  surely  there  must  come 
times  when  tears  well  up  for  very  humanity's 
sake,  to  say  nothing  of  the  pity  which  they  ac- 
quire who  look  at  things  from  God's  standpoint. 

Jesus  beheld  the  city  and  wept  over  it.  Give 
us  this  day,  O  Son  of  Man,  Thy  compassion.  Thy 
love.  Thy  tears,  that  we  may  speak  of  Thy  grace 
graciously,  of  Thy  love  tenderly,  and  even  of  Thy 
judgments  with  brimming  eyes. 


A  broken  heart,  a  fount  of  tears : 
Ask,  and  it  shall  not  be  denied. 


Wouldst  thou  avert  such  issues  ;  begin  with 
the  cradled  babes  of  your  homes.  Win  them  for 
God ;  teach  them  how  to  curb  passion  and  sub- 
due themselves.  Tenderness  and  wisdom  may 
arrest  the  making  of  Ben-hadads. 
85 


Is   it  peace ^  Jehu  f     And  he   answered.    What 
peace  ?  2  Kings  ix.  22. 

WE  all  want  peace.  Of  every  telegraph  mes- 
senger, as  he  puts  the  buff-colored  envelope  into 
our  hands,  we  ask  almost  instinctively,  Is  it 
peace?  If  there  is  a  rumor  of  war,  a  depression 
in  trade,  a  bad  harvest,  a  sudden  calamity  in  our 
neighborhood,  we  instantly  consider  the  effect  it 
may  have  on  the  tranquillity  and  prosperity  of  our 
life. 

By  peace  wc  too  often  mean  the  absence  of  the 
disagreeable,  the  unbroken  routine  of  outward 
prosperity,  the  serene  passage  of  the  years :  not 
always  eager  for  anything  deeper.  And  if  other 
and  profounder  questions  intrude  themselves,  we 
instantly  stifle  or  evade  them.  Like  Herod,  we 
shut  up  the  Baptist  in  the  dungeon.  Like  the  Ro- 
man general,  we  make  a  desert  and  call  it  peace. 
Men  will  flee  from  a  Gospel  ministry  which  pur- 
sues them  into  close  quarters,  and  arouses  un- 
welcome questions  that  break  the  peace. 

There  cannot  be  true  peace  so  long  as  we  per- 
mit the  infidelities  and  charms  of  some  Jezebel  of 
the  soul-life  to  attract  and  affect  us.  Jezebel  may 
stand  for  the  painted  world,  with  its  wiles  and 
snares,  or  for  the  flesh,  or  for  some  unholy  asso- 
ciation of  the  past  life,  like  that  which  clung  to 
Augustine.  But  there  must  be  no  quarter  given 
to  the  unhallowed  rival  of  our  Lord.  Whatever 
its  charms,  it  must  be  flung  out  of  the  window 
before  we  can  be  at  peace. 

"  Then,  and  not  till  then,  we  shall  see  Thee  as  Thou  art ; 
Then,  and  not  till  then,  in  Thy  glory  bear  a  part ; 
Then,  and  not  till  then,  Thou  wilt  satisfy  each  heart." 

If  you   are  entirely  surrendered  to  the  Lord, 
"the  peace  of  God,  which   passeth   all  under- 
standing,   shall    guard    your    hearts    and    your 
thoughts  in  Christ  Jesus." 
86 


Jehu  took  no  heed  to  walk  in  the  law  of  the  Lord 
God  of  Israel.  2  Kings  x.  j/. 

JEHU  was  the  Cromwell  of  his  time.  He 
swept  away  the  symbols  of  idolatry  with  ruthless 
destruction.  Nothing  could  withstand  his  icono- 
clastic enthusiasm.  But  he  failed  to  keep  his 
own  heart,  and  therefore  his  dynasty  lasted  for 
but  one  generation.  It  is  a  deep  lesson  for  us 
all. 

We  may  keep  other  people's  vineyards,  and  neg- 
lect our  own.  We  may  give  good  advice  to  our 
friends,  but  fall  into  the  very  faults  against  which 
we  warn  them.  We  may  pose  as  infallible  guides, 
but  fall  into  the  crevasses  and  precipices  from 
which  we  had  carefully  warned  our  companions. 
Jehu  avenged  the  idolatries  of  Ahab,  but  he  de- 
parted not  from  Jeroboam's  calves. 

Before  you  rebuke  another,  be  sure  that  you 
are  free  from  the  faults  that  you  detect  in  him. 
When  you  hear  of  the  failings  of  some  erring 
brother,  ask  yourself  whether  you  are  perfectly 
free  from  them.  And  never  attempt  to  cast  out 
the  mote  from  your  neighbor's  eye  till  you  are 
sure  that  the  beam  has  been  taken  from  your 
own. 

Take  heed  to  your  heart.  Its  complexion 
colors  all  the  issues  of  life.  Do  not  be  content  to 
be  strong  against  evil ;  be  eagerly  ambitious  of 
good.  It  is  easier  to  be  vehement  against  the 
abominations  of  others  than  to  judge  and  put 
away  your  own  secret  sins.  But  while  we  keep 
our  heart  with  all  diligence,  we  cannot  afford  to 
be  independent  of  the  keeping  power  of  God. 
We  must  yield  ourselves  to  Him,  reserving  noth- 
ing. The  King  must  have  all.  The  light  of  His 
face  must  fill  every  nook  and  corner  of  the  soul. 
And  every  power  that  opposes  itself  to  His  do- 
minion, must  be  dragged  beyond  the  barriers 
and  ruthlessly  slain. 

•87 


They  made  him  kingy  and  anointed  him. 

2  Kings  xi.  12. 

THIS  dexterous  overthrow  of  Athaliah  by  the 
bringing  of  the  youthful  king,  who  had  been  hid- 
den in  the  secret  chambers  of  the  Temple,  ac- 
commodates itself  so  obviously  to  a  reference  to 
the  inner  life,  that  we  must  be  pardoned  for 
making  it. 

Is  not  the  spiritual  condition  of  too  many  chil- 
dren of  God  represented  by  the  condition  of  the 
Temple,  during  theearly  years  of  the  life  of  Joash? 
The  king  was  within  its  precincts,  the  rightful 
heir  of  the  crown  and  defender  of  the  worship 
of  Jehovah :  but,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  crown 
was  on  the  head  of  the  usurper  Athaliah,  who 
was  exercising  a  cruel  and  sanguinary  tyranny. 
The  king  was  limited  to  a  chamber,  and  the  ma- 
jority of  the  priests,  with  all  the  people,  had  not 
even  heard  of  his  existence.  So,  unless  we  are 
reprobates,  Jesus  is  within  the  spirit,  which  has 
been  regenerated  by  the  Holy  Ghost ;  but  in  too 
many  cases  He  is  limited  to  a  very  small  corner 
of  our  nature,  and  exercises  but  a  limited  power 
over  our  life. 

There  needs  to  be  an  anointing,  an  enthroning, 
a  determination  that  He  shall  exercise  His  power 
over  the  entire  Temple  of  our  Being ;  the  spirit^ 
which  stands  for  the  Holy  of  Holies ;  the  soul^ 
for  the  Holy  Place ;  the  body^  for  the  outer 
court. 

Holiness  or  Sanctification  is  not  a  quality  or 
attribute  which  can  be  attributed  to  us  apart  from 
the  indwelling  of  the  Holy  One.  If  we  would 
be  holy,  we  must  be  indwelt  by  Him  who  is  holy. 
If  we  would  have  holiness,  we  must  be  infilled  by 
the  Holy  One.  But  there  must  be  no  limiting  of 
His  power,  no  barrier  to  His  control,  no  veiling 
or  curtaining  of  His  light.  The  veil,  if  such  there 
be,  must  be  rent  in  twain  from  the  top  to  the  bot- 
tom. 

88 


The  money  that  cometh  into  any  man^s  heart  to 
bring  into  the  house  of  the  Lord.    2  Kings  xii.  4. 

THE  margin  suggests  that  the  thought  of  giv- 
ing for  God's  house  would  ascend  in  a  man's 
heart,  till  it  became  the  royal  and  predominant 
thought,  swaying  the  whole  man  to  obedience. 
It  is  a  beautiful  conception  ! 

For  the  reconstruction  of  the  Temple  there 
were  two  classes  of  revenue :  the  tribute  money 
which  each  Israelite  was  bound  to  give,  and  the 
money  which  a  man  might  feel  prompted  to  give. 
Surely  the  latter  was  the  more  precious  in  the  eye 
of  God. 

Does  it  ever  come  into  your  heart  to  bring  some 
money  into  the  house  of  God  ?  Perhaps  the  sug- 
gestion comes,  but  you  put  it  away,  and  refuse  to 
consider  it.  The  thought  begins  to  ascend  in 
your  heart,  but  you  thrust  it  down  and  back,  say- 
ing. Why  should  I  part  with  what  has  cost  me  so 
much  to  get !  Beware  of  stifling  these  generous 
promptings.  To  yield  to  them  would  bring  un- 
told blessing  into  heart  and  life.  Besides,  the 
money  is  only  yours  as  a  stewardship;  and  the 
thought  to  give  it  to  God  is  only  the  Master's  re- 
quest for  His  own. 

The  great  mistake  with  us  all  is,  that  we  do 
not  hold  all  our  property  at  God's  disposal,  seek- 
ing His  directions  for  its  administration;  and 
that  we  forget  how  freely  we  have  received  that 
we  may  resemble  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  freely 
give.  Too  many,  alas  !  are  anxious  to  hoard  up 
and  keep  for  themselves  that  which  God  has  given 
them,  instead  of  counting  themselves  and  all  they 
have  as  purchased  property,  and  using  all  things 
as  His  representatives  and  trustees.  Let  us  make 
a  complete  surrender  to  our  Lord,  and  from  the 
heart  sing. 

Take  my  silver  and  my  gold, 
Not  a  mite  would  I  withhold. 


He  smote  thrice  and  stayed. 

2  Kitjgs  xiii.  i8. 

A  STRIKING  spectacle.  The  dying  prophet, 
with  his  thin  hands  on  the  muscular  hands  of  the 
young  king,  as  he  shoots  his  arrow  through  the 
eastern  window;  the  exhortation  to  smite  the  re- 
maining arrows  on  the  ground  ;  the  bitter  chiding 
that  the  king  had  struck  thrice  only,  instead  of 
five  or  six  times  !  What  lessons  are  here  ?  The 
Lord  Jesus  put  His  hands  upon  ours.  Here  is 
the  reverse  to  the  incident  referred  to.  Ours  are 
weak.  His  are  strong;  ours  would  miss  the  mark. 
His  will  direct  the  arrows,  if  only  we  will  allow 
Him,  with  unerring  precision.  We  shoot,  but 
the  Lord  directs  the  arrow's  flight  to  the  heart  of 
His  foes. 

Our  success  is  commensurate  with  our  faith. 
If  we  strike  but  thrice,  we  conquer  but  thrice. 
If  we  strike  seven  times,  we  attain  a  perfect  vic- 
tory over  the  adversary.  Is  not  this  the  cause  of 
comparative  failure  in  Gospel  effort?  Souls  are 
not  saved  because  we  do  not  expect  them  to  be 
saved.  A  few  are  saved,  because  we  only  believe 
for  a  few.  It  is  one  of  the  most  radical  laws  in 
the  universe  of  God,  and  one  which  our  Lord  re- 
peatedly emphasized,  that  our  faith  determines 
the  less  or  more  in  our  own  growth,  and  in  the 
victories  we  win  for  Christ.  Do  not  stay,  O  soul- 
winner,  but  smite  again  and  yet  again  in  the  se- 
cret of  thy  chamber,  that  thou  mayest  smite  Satan, 
and  compel  him  to  acknowledge  thy  mite. 

Let  us  not  stay,  though  the  energy  of  earlier 
days  may  be  ebbing  fast.  The  sanctified  spirit 
waxes  only  stronger  and  more  heroic,  as  Elisha's 
and  Paul's  did,  amid  the  decay  of  mortal  power. 
The  Lord  will  say  to  us,  as  He  did  to  Paul,  "My 
grace  is  sufficient  for  thee :  for  my  strength  is 
made  perfect  in  weakness." 


90 


Every  man  shall  be  put  to  death  for  his  own  sin, 

2  Kings  xiv.  6. 

SO  ran  the  law  of  Moses.  It  forbade  the  im- 
position of  punishment  on  the  relatives  of  the 
wrong-doer,  but  it  had  no  mercy  on  him.  **  The 
soul  that  sinneth,  it  shall  die,"  was  the  succinct 
and  conclusive  verdict  of  the  older  law,  in  this 
reflecting  the  spirit  and  letter  of  one  yet  older, 
which  ran,  "The  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof, 
thou  shalt  surely  die." 

First,  we  were  dead  in  our  sins. — Eph.  ii.  5 
puts  this  beyond  all  doubt.  In  the  sight  of  God, 
all  who  walk  according  to  the  course  of  this  world, 
and  obey  the  prince  that  now  worketh  in  the 
children  of  this  world,  are  dead  in  trespasses  and 
sins.  However  much  they  may  be  alive  as  to 
their  souls,  they  are  dead  as  to  their  spirits,  en- 
tirely destitute  of  the  life  of  God. 

Seco?id,  we  have  died  for  our  sins. — 2  Cor.  v. 
14,  15  (r.  v.)  establishes  this  fact,  and  shows 
that  in  Jesus,  we  who  believe  in  Him,  are  reck- 
oned to  have  died  in  Him  when  He  bore  our  sins 
in  His  own  body  on  the  tree.  In  God's  estimate. 
His  death  is  imputed  to  us ;  so  that  we  are  reck- 
oned as  having  satisfied,  in  Jesus,  the  demands 
of  a  broken  law.     It  has  no  more  to  ask. 

Third,  we  must  die  to  our  sin. — Rom.  vi.  11. 
Reckon  that  you  have  died,  and  whenever  sin 
arises,  to  menace  or  allure  you,  point  back  to  the 
grave,  and  argue  that  since  you  died  in  Christ, 
you  have  passed  altogether  beyond  its  jurisdiction, 
for  you  have  yielded  your  members  as  weapons 
of  righteousness  unto  God.  And  having  been 
crucified  with  Christ,  you  now  no  longer  live, 
but  Christ  liveth  in  you.  Let  it  become  your 
daily  habit  to  place  the  grave  of  Jesus  between 
yourself  and  all  allurements  of  the  world,  the 
flesh,  and  the  devil. 

91 


The  sins   of  Jeroboam,   the  so  ft  of  Nebat,  who 
made  Israel  to  sin.  a  Kings  xv.  g,  iS,  24,  28. 

THIS  chapter  anticipates  the  final  overthrow 
of  the  kingdom  of  the  tribes.  It  describes  the 
corruption  and  disorganization  of  the  people 
which  made  them  the  easy  prey  of  Assyria.  One 
puppet-king  after  another  was  set  upon  the  throne 
to  fall  after  a  brief  space  of  rule,  and  four  times 
over  it  is  said  that  they  followed  in  the  steps  of 
Jeroboam,  *'  who  made  Israel  to  sin."  The  seed 
sown  two  hundred  years  before  had  at  last  come 
to  maturity,  issuing  in  the  ruin  of  the  nation. 
What  a  comment  on  the  inspired  words,  "  Sin, 
when  it  is  finished,  bringeth  forth  death." 

Twelve  times  in  the  story  of  the  kingdom  of 
Israel,  we  are  told  that  Jeroboam,  the  son  of 
Nebat,  made  Israel  to  sin.  The  institution  of 
the  calves  on  his  part  seemed  to  be  a  piece  of 
political  wisdom,  but  it  was  an  infraction  of  the 
Divine  law ;  and  what  is  morally  wrong  can 
never  be  politically  right.  The  house  cannot 
stand  unless  the  foundation  can  bear  the  test  of 
the  Divine  plummet.  The  kingdom  of  Israel 
fell,  to  prove  to  all  after-time  that  the  disregard 
of  God's  law  is  a  foundation  of  sand,  which  can 
never  resist  the  test  of  time. 

Why  is  Jeroboam  so  frequently  called  "the 
son  of  Nebat  "  ?  Why  should  the  father  be  for- 
ever pilloried  with  the  son,  except  that  he  was  in 
some  way  responsible  for,  and  implicated  in,  his 
sins?  There  was  a  time  when  perhaps  Nebat 
might  have  restrained  the  growing  boy,  or  led 
him  to  the  true  worship  of  God  ;  or  perhaps  his 
parental  influence  and  example  were  deadly  in 
their  effect.  How  important  that  parents  should 
leave  no  stone  unturned  to  promote  the  godliness 
of  their  children,  bringing  them  up  in  the  nurture 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord. 


92 


King  Ahaz  sent  to  Urijah  the  fashion  of  the  altar 
and  the  pattern  of  it.  2  Kings  xvi.  10. 

THE  fashion  of  this  world  passeth  away  like  a 
fleeting  dream;  or  like  the  panorama  of  clouds 
that  constitutes  a  pavilion  of  the  setting  sun,  but 
which,  whilst  we  gaze,  tumbles  into  a  mass  of  red 
ruin.  And  yet  we  are  always  so  prone  to  imitate 
King  Ahaz,  and  visit  Damascus  with  the  inten- 
tion of  procuring  the  latest  design,  and  introduc- 
ing it,  even  into  the  service  of  the  sanctuary. 

Man  naturally  imitates.  He  must  get  the  pat- 
tern of  his  work  from  above,  or  beneath ;  from 
God  or  the  devil :  hence  the  repeated  injunction 
to  us  all,  to  make  all  things  after  the  pattern 
shown  on  the  mount.  If  we  would  be  rid  of  the 
influence  of  worldly  fashion,  we  must  conform 
ourselves  to  the  heavenly  and  divine.  The  pat- 
tern of  the  Body  of  Christ,  of  the  position  of 
each  individual  believer  among  its  members,  and 
of  the  work  which  each  should  accomplish,  was 
fixed  before  the  worlds  were  made.  The  best 
cure  for  worldliness  is  not  unworldliness,  but 
other-worldliness.  The  best  way  of  resisting  tne 
trend  of  people  around  us  is  to  cultivate  the 
speech,  thought,  and  behavior  of  that  celestial 
world  to  which  we  are  bound  by  the  most  sacred 
ties,  and  whither  we  are  travelling  at  every  heart- 
throb. 

This  introduction  of  the  altar  of  a  heathen 
shrine  into  the  holy  temple  of  Jerusalem,  reminds 
us  of  the  many  rites  in  modern  religious  observ- 
ances which  have  been  borrowed  from  paganism, 
and  warns  us  that  the  Church  has  no  right  to  go 
to  the  world  for  its  methods  and  principles.  Let 
the  world  do  as  it  may  in  its  discussions  about 
truth,  its  efforts  to  attract  attention,  and  its  or- 
ganizations ;  our  course  is  clear,  not  to  build 
altars  after  its  fashion,  nor  model  our  life  on  its 
maxims. 

93 


These  nations  feared  the  Lord,  and  served  their 
graven  images.  2  Kings  xvii.  41. 

IT  was  a  curious  mixture.  These  people  had 
come  from  Babylon,  Hamath,  and  Sepharvaim, 
and  were  settled  in  the  land  from  which  Israel 
was  deported.  In  their  desire  to  propitiate  the 
God  of  the  country,  they  added  His  worship  to 
that  of  their  own  gods  (ver.  32),  though  they 
did  not  really  fear  Him  (ver.  34).  There  was  an 
outward  recognition  of  the  God  of  Israel,  which 
was  worse  than  useless.  Are  you  sure  this  is  not 
a  true  description  of  your  own  position?  You 
pay  an  outward  deference  to  God  by  attending 
His  house,  and  acknowledging  His  day,  whilst 
you  are  really  prostrating  yourself  before  other 
shrines.  The  one  originates  in  a  superstitious 
fear,  a  desire  to  stand  well  with  your  fellows ; 
but  it  is  in  the  direction  of  the  other  that  your 
heart  really  goes.  You  come  as  His  people 
come,  sit  as  His  people  sit,  kneel  as  His  people 
kneel ;  but  your  heart  is  far  apart,  and  you  only 
do  as  you  do  that  you  may  follow  your  own  evil 
ways  with  less  fear  of  discovery. 

With  all  of  us  there  is  too  much  of  this  double 
worship;  but  let  it  be  clearly  understood  that  it  is 
only  apparent,  not  real.  No  man  ever  really 
serves  two  masters,  or  worships  two  gods.  What- 
ever conflicts  with  God  in  heart  or  life  is  our 
chosen  god.  Whatever  appears  to  share  our 
heart  with  God  really  holds  our  heart.  God  will 
never  be  in  competition  with  another.  He  must 
either  be  all  or  none. 

The  soul  that  endeavors  to  divide  its  service  be- 
tween Jehovah  on  the  first  day,  and  its  graven 
images  all  the  other  days  of  the  week,  might  as 
well  discontinue  its  religious  observances,  for  they 
count  for  nothing:  except  to  blind  it  to  its  true 
condition. 


94 


Now  on  whom  dost  thou  trust  ? 

2  Kings  xviii.  20. 

IT  was  no  small  thing  for  Hezekiah  to  rebel 
against  the  proud  King  of  Assyria.  Hamath  and 
Arpad,  Samaria  and  Sepharvaim,  Hena  and  Ivah, 
reduced  to  heaps  of  stones,  were  sufficient  proofs 
of  the  might  of  his  ruthless  soldiers.  How 
could  Jerusalem  hope  to  withstand  ?  Rabshakeh 
could  not  comprehend  the  secret  source  of 
Hezekiah's  confidence.  It  was  of  no  use  for 
him  to  turn  to  Egypt.  Pharaoh  was  a  bruised 
reed.  And  as  for  Jehovah  !  Was  there  any 
likelihood  that  He  could  do  for  Israel  more  than 
the  gods  of  the  other  nations  had  done  for  them  ? 
Not  infrequently  does  the  puzzled  world  ask  the 
Church,  "  In  whom  dost  thou  trust?  " 

Our  life  must  to  a  large  extent  be  a  mystery, 
our  peace  pass  understanding,  and  our  motives 
be  hidden.  The  sources  of  our  supply,  the 
ground  of  our  confidence,  the  reasons  for  our 
actions,  must  evade  the  most  searching  scrutiny 
of  those  who  stand  outside  the  charmed  circle  of 
the  face  of  God  ;  as  it  is  written,  "  Eye  hath  not 
seen,  nor  ear  heard  .  .  .  what  God  hath  pre- 
pared." 

We  all  ought  to  have  the  secrets  which  the 
world  cannot  penetrate.  Doubt  your  religion  if 
it  all  lies  on  the  surface,  and  if  men  are  able  to 
calculate  to  a  nicety  the  considerations  by  which 
you  are  actuated.  We  must  be  prepared  to  be 
misunderstood  and  criticised,  because  our  be- 
havior is  determined  by  facts  which  the  princes 
of  this  world  know  not.  We  do  not  look  up  to 
the  hills,  because  we  look  beyond  them  to  God  ; 
we  do  not  trust  in  silver  or  gold,  or  human  re- 
source, because  God  is  our  confidence.  We  can- 
not but  seem  eccentric  to  this  world,  because  we 
have  found  another  centre,  and  are  concentric 
with  the  Eternal  Throne. 

95 


And  Hezekiah  spread  it  before  the  Lord. 

2  Kings  xix.  14. 

AMID  the  panic  that  reigned  in  Jerusalem,  the 
king  and  the  prophet  alone  kept  level  heads,  for 
they  alone  had  quiet,  trustful  hearts.  We  hardly 
realize  the  crisis  unless  we  compare  it  with  the 
march  of  200,000  Kurds  or  Turkish  soldiers  upon 
some  peaceful  Armenian  community.  Israel  had 
no  earthly  allies.  Her  only  reinforcements  could 
reach  her  from  heaven,  and  it  was  the  care  of 
these  two  saintly  men  to  implicate  their  cause 
with  that  of  the  living  God  (ver.  4).  This  is 
the  faith  that  overcomes  the  world,  which  real- 
izes that  God  lives  here  and  now  in  our  home  and 
life  and  circumstances.  His  cause  is  implicated 
in  our  deliverance ;  His  name  will  be  disgraced 
if  we  are  overwhelmed,  and  honored,  if  pre- 
served. He  is  our  Judge,  Lawgiver  and  King, 
and  is  therefore  bound  by  the  most  solemn  obli- 
gations to  save  us,  or  His  name  will  be  tarnished. 

When  therefore  letters  come  to  you,  anonymous 
or  otherwise,  full  of  bitter  reproach  ;  when  un- 
kind and  malignant  stories  are  set  on  foot  with 
respect  to  you ;  when  all  hope  from  man  has 
perished,  then  take  your  complaint — the  letter, 
the  article,  the  speech,  the  rumor — and  lay  it 
before  God.  Let  your  requests  be  made  known 
unto  Him.  Tell  Him  how  absolutely  you  trust. 
Then  malice  and  fear  will  pass  from  your  heart, 
whilst  peace  and  love  will  take  their  place :  and 
presently  there  will  come  a  swift  message  of  com- 
fort, like  that  which  Isaiah,  the  son  of  Amoz, 
sent  to  Hezekiah,  saying  on  the  behalf  of  God, 
<'That  which  thou  hast  prayed  to  Me,  I  have 
heard." 

God  knew  the  contents  of  the  missive  before 
you  did ;  but  He  likes  to  read  it  again  in  the 
company  of  His  child  ! 


Let  the  shadoiv  return  backward  ten  degrees. 

2  Kings  XX.  lo. 

IT  is  impossible  for  us  to  understand  how  this 
could  be.  The  shadow  of  the  declining  day 
waxes  ever  longer,  and  only  a  miracle  could 
change  its  appearance  on  the  dial.  It  may  sug- 
gest some  significant  thoughts  about  shadows  that 
may  still  go  back. 

The  shadow  of  a  wasted  life. — Of  course,  there 
is  a  sense  in  which  the  wasted  years  will  never 
come  again ;  they  have  passed  beyond  recall. 
But  the  shadow  may  go  back  on  the  dial  of  our 
life  when  we  truly  repent,  and  turn  again  to  God, 
for  He  hath  promised  :  "I  will  never  leave  thee, 
neither  forsake  thee."  And  "I  will  give  back 
the  years  that  the  canker  worm  and  caterpillar 
have  eaten." 

The  shadow  of  happier  days. — These  seem  to 
have  gone.  For  long  you  have  noticed  the  grow- 
ing twilight,  and  it  has  seemed  impossible  ever 
again  to  have  the  lightsomeness  and  spring  of 
one  or  two  decades  back.  But  be  of  good  cheer, 
for  when  a  man  comes  into  that  fellowship  with 
God  which  sorrow  and  temptation  teach,  when 
with  growing  years  he  attains  added  grace,  we 
are  told  that  he  shall  return  to  the  days  of  his 
youth. 

The  shadow  of  early  affection. — Have  you  lost 
loved  ones,  so  that  your  life  is  like  a  house  the 
windows  of  which,  one  after  another,  have  become 
shuttered  and  dark?  But  love  is  not  forfeited 
forever.  Those  who  forsake  all  for  Christ's  sake 
shall  get  all  back  again  in  Him.  His  love  com- 
prehends all  human  love.  The  relationships  of 
His  kingdom  surpass  in  tenderness  and  tenacity 
tliose  of  the  warmest  earthly  ties.  Thy  brother 
shall  rise  again,  and  thou  shalt  hear  him  call  thy 
name,  and  shalt  sit  with  him  in  the  Home  of 
Life. 

97 


And  his  mother's  name  was  Hephzi-bah. 

2  Kings  xxi.  i. 

HEPHZI-BAH  means,  "  My  delight  is  in  her" 
(Isa.  Ixii.  4).  How  strange,  supposing  that  her 
name  was  any  indication  of  her  character,  that 
such  a  woman  should  have  borne  such  a  son ;  for 
"  Manasseh  did  wickedly  above  all  the  Amorites 
did  which  were  before  him."  A  godly  ancestry, 
however,  does  not  guarantee  a  holy  seed.  Heze- 
kiahs  and  Hephzi-bahs  may  be  the  parents  of 
Manassehs.     That  this  may  not  be  so : — 

Let  us  guard  against  the  inconsistencies  of  our 
private  life. — The  child  of  religious  parents  be- 
comes habituated  to  their  use  of  expressions  in 
public  which  betoken  the  highest  degree  of  holi- 
ness, and  is  therefore  quicker  to  notice  any  in- 
consistency in  temper  or  walk.  Is  there  not  a 
subtle  temptation  also  for  those  who  work  much 
for  God  in  public  to  feel  that  a  certain  laxity  is 
permissible  in  the  home?  Will  not  late  after- 
meetings  at  night  compensate  for  indolence  in 
the  morning,  and  will  not  protracted  services  be 
the  equivalent  for  private  prayer?  May  not  irri- 
tability to  servants  or  children  be  accounted  for 
by  the  overstrain  of  our  great  work?  Hence,  in- 
consistency and  failure  to  realize  our  lofty  aims, 
which  are  quickly  noticed,  beget  distaste  for  our 
religion. 

Let  us  guard  against  absorption  in  public  re- 
ligious duty  to  the  neglect  of  the  home. — Does  it 
never  happen  that  the  children  of  religious  par- 
ents are  put  to  bed  by  nurses  who  are  heedless  of 
their  prayers,  because  their  mothers  have  under- 
taken a  mission  ?  Do  not  boys  sometimes  grow 
up  without  the  correcting  influence  of  the  father's 
character,  because  he,  good  man,  is  so  taken  up 
with  committees? 

Let  us  guard  against  an  austerity  of  manner ^ 
which  preve7its  us  being  the  companions ,  play  fel- 
lows ^  and  associates  of  our  children. 
98 


Thou  shalt  be  gathered  into  thy  grave  in  peace. 

2  Kings  xxii.  20. 

AS  a  matter  of  fact,  Josiah's  death  was  not  a 
peaceful  one.  He  persisted  in  going  into  conflict 
with  Pharaoh-necho,  king  of  Egypt,  against  the 
latter's  earnest  remonstrance  (see  2  Chron.  xxxv. 
20-22);  and,  in  consequence  of  his  hardihood, 
met  his  death.  His  servants  carried  him  in  a 
chariot  dead  from  Megiddo  (ch.  xxiii.  30).  Is 
there,  then,  any  real  contradiction  between  the 
prophet's  prediction  and  this  sad  event? 

Certainly  not !  The  one  tells  us  what  God  was 
prepared  to  do  for  His  servant;  the  other  what 
he  brought  on  himself  by  his  own  folly.  There 
are  many  instances  of  this  change  of  purpose  in 
the  Word  of  God.  One  of  them  is  known  as 
*'  His  breach  of  promise,"  or  ''altering  of  pur- 
pose" (Num.  xiv.  34,  inarg.).  He  would  have 
saved  His  people  from  the  forty  years'  wander- 
ing in  the  wilderness,  but  they  made  Him  to 
serve  with  their  sins  and  wearied  Him  with  their 
iniquities.  He  would  have  gathered  Jerusalem 
as  a  hen  gathers  her  brood,  but  she  would  not. 

Let  us  beware  lest,  a  promise  being  left  us,  we 
should  seem  to  come  short  of  it ;  lest  there  be  in 
any  of  us  an  evil  heart  of  unbelief  in  departing 
from  the  living  God,  and  frustrating  some  blessed 
purpose  of  His  heart.  "  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor 
ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of 
man  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for 
them  that  love  Him";  but  we  may  limit  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel,  and  so  restrain  Him  by  our 
unbelief  as  to  stay  the  mighty  works  which  are 
in  His  plan  for  us.  He  may  desire  for  us  a  pros- 
perous life  and  a  peaceful  death ;  but  we  may 
close  our  dying  eyes  amid  disaster  and  defeat, 
because  we  willfully  chose  our  own  way. 


99 


Like  wito  Josiah  was  there  no  king  before  him. 

2  Kings  xxiii.  2j. 

THIS  chapter  is  a  marvellous  record  of  cleans- 
ing and  purging.  We  are  led  from  one  item  to 
another  of  drastic  reform.  Nothing  was  spared 
that  savored  of  idolatry.  Priests  and  altars, 
buildings  and  groves,  came  under  the  searching 
scrutiny  of  this  true-hearted  monarch;  and,  as 
the  result,  it  was  possible  to  keep  such  a  Passover 
as  had  not  been  observed  during  the  days  of  the 
judges  or  the  kings  (ver.  22). 

How  much  our  enjoyment  of  the  solemn  feast 
depends  upon  our  previous  efforts  to  put  away 
from  our  lives  all  that  is  inconsistent  with  the  law 
of  God.  We  hardly  realize  how  insidiously  evils 
creep  in.  Before  we  are  aware,  we  have  fallen 
beneath  God's  ideal,  and  adopted  the  customs  of 
our  neighbors,  or  of  those  with  whom  we  come 
into  daily  contact.  All  such  declension  hinders 
our  joy  in  keeping  the  Passover.  It  is  needful, 
therefore,  that  there  should  be  times  when  we 
turn  to  God  with  fresh  devotion,  and  in  the  light 
of  His  holy  truth  pass  the  various  departments  of 
our  life  under  review,  testing  everything  by  the 
Book  of  the  Law.  In  Josiah's  case,  the  sacred 
volume  was  recovered  from  long  neglect ;  in  our 
case  it  needs  to  be  re-read  in  the  light  of  higher 
resolves.  This  would  be  like  a  new  discovery. 
Our  ultimate  rule  must  always  be  the  will  of 
God,  appreciated  with  growing  clearness,  and 
used  as  a  standard  by  which  to  judge  the  habits 
and  tenets  of  our  life.  We  read  the  Bible  for 
purposes  of  a  truer  knowledge  of  God  and  His 
ways,  and  for  spiritual  quickening;  but  let  us 
also  use  it  more  frequently  as  the  bath  of  the 
spirit.  Let  us  bathe  in  it.  Let  us  revel  in  it  as 
the  grimy  children  of  the  slums  in  the  laughing 
wavelets  of  river  and  sea. 


100 


He  carried  out  thence  all   the  treasures  of  the 
House  of  the  Lord.  2  Kings  xxiv.  ij. 

AMONGST  these  departed  treasures  must  have 
been  much  of  the  sacred  furniture  of  the  Temple, 
and  the  holy  vessels ;  because,  in  the  days  of 
Belshazzar,  we  find  them  brought  out  to  grace 
the  royal  banquet.  Belshazzar  drank  wine  from 
them  with  his  lords,  wives,  and  concubines, 
whilst  they  praised  the  gods  of  Babylon,  who 
had  given  them  victory  over  their  foes.  Amongst 
the  rest  was  the  golden  candlestick,  whose  flame 
afterward  illuminated  the  inscription  of  doom, 
written  by  God's  hand  upon  the  palace  wall.  By 
the  command  of  Cyrus  these  precious  vessels 
were  finally  restored  (Ezra  v.  14),  and  carried 
back  to  Jerusalem,  by  a  faithful  band  of  priests 

(viii.  33)- 

The  whole  story  of  the  captivity  is  full  of  sol- 
emn lessons. — The  Church  of  God  must  make  her 
choice  between  one  of  two  courses :  either  she 
must  keep  from  all  entangling  alliances,  and  from 
vieing  for  temporal  power;  or  she  must  face  the 
liability  of  being  brought  under  the  power  with 
which  she  would  fain  assimilate.  Israel  wanted 
to  be  as  the  other  nations  around  her,  imitating 
their  organization,  and  allying  herself  now  with 
one,  and  then  with  another ;  in  consequence  she 
was  swept  into  captivity  to  the  very  nation  whose 
fashions  she  most  affected  (Isa.  xxxviii.). 

Have  we  never  tasted  the  bitters  of  captivity  ? 
— Borne  away  from  our  happy  early  homes  to  live 
among  strangers,  set  to  repugnant  tasks,  removed 
from  all  that  made  life  worth  living,  we  have 
known  the  exile's  lot.  Alas  !  if  it  be  so ;  yet, 
even  in  our  captivity,  where  the  Lord's  song  is 
silenced,  and  our  harps  hang  from  the  willows, 
if  we  repent,  and  put  away  our  sins,  and  turn 
again  to  the  Lord,  He  will  not  only  have  mercy, 
but  abundantly  pardon,  and  bring  us  again  that 
we  may  be  as  we  were  in  times  past. 
101 


Every  day  a  portion^  all  the  days  of  his  life. 

2  Kings  XXV.  JO  (R.  V.). 

IS  it  to  be  supposed  that  the  king  of  Babylon 
took  more  care  of  Jehoiachin  than  God  will  lake 
of  us  I  Jehoiachin  had  resisted  his  suzerain,  and 
cost  him  a  great  expenditure  of  men  and  treas- 
ure ;  but  nothing  which  had  transpired  in  the 
past  hindered  this  provision  of  a  daily  supply. 
Will  God  do  less  for  you,  His  child  ?  Would  it 
not  come  as  a  relief  if  you  were  to  be  told  that, 
from  this  moment  till  you  die,  you  could  al- 
ways have  a  sufficient  provision  of  all  the  neces- 
saries of  life?  But  if  you  are  a  child  of  God, 
that  promise  has  already  been  made  !  Do  not  be 
anxious,  but  believe  that  God's  word  is  at  least 
as  sure  and  as  efficient  as  man's. 

The  allowance  was  continual. — It  did  not  be- 
gin with  plenty,  and  gradually  dwindle  to  scraps. 
The  supply  was  maintained  year  after  year.  Will 
God  drop  off  your  supplies,  think  you,  because 
He  forgets,  or  because  His  power  is  exhausted  ? 
You  know  that  each  supposition  is  alike  unten- 
able. What  He  has  done,  He  will  do.  The 
storehouses  of  nature  open  to  His  key.  His  are 
the  cattle  on  a  thousand  hills. 

Every  day  a  portion. — Jehoiachin  had  not  the 
provisions  of  a  year  or  a  month  put  down  at  his 
door  ;  but  as  each  day  broke  he  was  sure  of  the 
day's  portion.  It  may  be  that  God  is  dealing 
thus  with  you.  Only  manna  for  the  day  :  daily 
strength  for  daily  need. 

All  the  days  of  His  life. — Jesus  is  with  us  "  all 
the  days";  and  He  is  the  bread  of  God,  in 
whom  is  every  property  necessary  for  life.  All 
the  days  are  included  in  God's  care  for  us,  of 
birth  and  death,  of  sunshine  and  shadow.  Surely 
goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow  you  all  the  days 
of  your  life,  and  you  shall  dwell  in  the  House  of 
the  Lord  forever. 

102 


Adam,  Seth,  Enosh. 

I  Chron.  i.  i, 

THIS  is  an  ancient  graveyard.  The  names  of 
past  generations  who  were  born  and  died,  who 
loved  and  suffered,  who  stormed  and  fought 
through  the  world,  are  engraven  on  these  solid 
slabs.  But  there  is  no  inscription  to  record  their 
worth  or  demerit.  Just  names,,  and  nothing 
more. 

How  strange  to  think  that  if  Christ  tarry,  our 
names  will  be  treated  with  the  same  apathy  as 
these  !  So  far  as  this  world  is  concerned,  we 
and  all  our  generations  shall  pass  away.  As  the 
flowers  of  the  field,  so  we  shall  perish  from  the 
earth. 

But  each  of  these  lives  fulfilled  a  necessary 
part  in  the  progress  of  the  race.  Each  was  in 
turn  father  and  son ;  each  passed  on  the  torch  of 
life ;  each  contributed  something  to  the  fabric  of 
humanity  rising  like  a  coral  island  from  unknown 
depths.  The  hilltops  would  not  be  possible  but 
for  their  lower  courses  which  touch  the  valleys. 
We  could  not  have  the  somebodies  without  an 
immense  number  of  nobodies.  The  flowers  of 
the  race  were  prepared  for  by  the  slow  progress 
of  the  plant  through  years  of  growth. 

But  each  was  the  object  of  the  love  of  God. 
Each  was  included  in  the  redemptive  purpose  of 
our  Lord ;  each  contributed  some  minute  par- 
ticle to  His  nature;  each  is  living  yet  some- 
where ;  each  will  have  to  stand  before  the  judg- 
ment-bar of  God ;  each  is  predestined  to  live  in 
the  unknown  world  that  lies  on  the  other  side. 
It  is  a  stupendous  thought  to  imagine  the  whole 
race,  rooted  in  Adam,  like  one  vast  far-spreading 
tree.  Ah,  reader,  be  sure  that  thou  art  taken 
out  of  the  first  Adam,  and  grafted  into  the  second 
— the  Lord  Jesus ;  and  abiding  in  Him,  see  that 
thou  bring  forth  much  fruit  to  His  glory. 

103 


These  are  the  sons  of  Israel. 

I  Chron.  it.  i. 

IT  is  noticeable  how  irrevocable  the  Divine 
sentence  is  on  a  human  life.  Of  Er,  the  grave, 
impartial  voice  of  Scripture  says,  he  was  *'  wicked 
in  the  sight  of  the  Lord"  ;  of  Achan,  he  was 
the  "troubler  of  Israel,  and  committed  a  tres- 
pass in  the  devoted  thing."  These  sentences  are 
recorded  with  such  precision  as  to  admit  of  no 
dispute,  no  appeal ;  and  they  sum  up  the  life. 

But  was  there  not  much  else  in  each  of  these 
men  ?  Were  there  not  tender  or  chivalrous  mo- 
ments? Did  they  never  shine  for  a  moment  in 
some  transfiguring  ray  ?  Was  all  their  life  dyed 
with  these  sad  and  sombre  hues?  Ah,  it  may 
have  been  so — still  the  one  thing  that  the  Scrip- 
ture tells  of  them  is  the  sin  in  which  all  their  life 
seemed  to  culminate  and  express  itself.  With 
unerring  accuracy  God  can  distinguish  the  one 
act  or  word  by  which  the  character  is  revealed. 
He  may  forgive  it,  but  He  holds  it  up  as  the 
epitome  or  summary  of  what  the  life  was. 

Let  us  see  how  we  live,  walking  before  God 
with  reverent  fear,  watching  and  praying,  be- 
cause any  moment  may  give  birth  to  a  word  or 
act,  which  may  characterize  our  life  in  all  com- 
ing time.  It  must  be  remembered,  however, 
that  all  these  things  emanate  from  the  heart. 
The  heart  is  deceitful  above  all  things,  and  des- 
perately wicked;  but  the  issues  of  life  proceed 
thence :  it  therefore  must  be  watched  with  all 
diligence  and  care.  What  a  man  thinks,  that  he 
is.  The  chance  word  or  act  is  a  true  indication 
of  the  inner  life.  Therefore  it  is  preserved  for 
all  aftertime  by  the  voice  of  God.  See  that  your 
heart  is  perfect  before  God.  There  is  forgive- 
ness ;  but  there  is  also  the  unerring  verdict. 


104 


These  were  the  sons  of  David. 

I  C/iron.  in.  i. 

BUT  how  different  they  were  to  the  Son  of 
David  !  Contrast  any  one  of  these  with  our 
blessed  Lord,  and  what  an  infinite  chasm  lies  be- 
tween them  !  Solomon  was  the  most  reputable 
of  them,  but  a  greater  than  Solomon  was  born  in 
Bethlehem,  and  cradled  in  a  manger.  Surely  the 
least  earnest  must  be  struck  with  the  difference  in 
these  sons,  and  that  Son.  But  in  this  difference, 
is  there  not  the  most  conspicuous  proof  of  His 
miraculous  conception  ?  Even  though  the  story 
of  His  wondrous  birth  had  never  been  preserved 
for  us  by  the  evangelists,  we  should  have  felt  con- 
vinced that  something  like  it  must  have  happened, 
in  virtue  of  which  He  should  be  the  Man  of  men, 
the  one  absolutely  flawless  and  perfect  flower  on 
the  stem  of  humanity.  With  new  emphasis  we 
read  the  familiar  words,  "The  Holy  Ghost  shall 
come  upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest 
shall  overshadow  thee  ;  therefore  that  Holy  thing 
which  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall  be  called  the 
Son  of  God." 

We,  too,  who  have  been  born  once,  need  to  be 
born  again.  To  be  born  of  a  David  does  not 
ensure  perfectness  of  heart  and  life.  Though 
born  of  parents,  who  were  after  God's  own  heart 
and  are  passed  into  the  skies,  we  need  to  be  born 
again,  or  we  may  repeat  the  sins  of  an  Ammon, 
an  Adonijah,  an  Absalom.  It  is  a  serious  ques- 
tion to  ask  whether,  like  David,  we  have  called 
his  greater  Son  our  Lord.  This  is  the  true  mark 
of  the  new  birth.  Those  who  are  born  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  call  Jesus  Lord,  and  none  other. 
The  recognition  of  the  supreme  lordship  of  Jesus 
is  imperative  for  the  peace  and  right  ordering  of 
the  heart  and  life.  So  we  pass  to  our  true  stature 
in  Jesus. 


105 


Because  I  hare  him  with  sorrow. 

I  Chron.  iv.  g. 

THE  products  of  sorrow  have  been  the  rarest 
gifts  to  mankind.  The  books,  hymns,  discover- 
ies, deeds,  to  which  men  and  women  have  been 
urged  by  sorrow,  or  which  have  been  born  into 
the  world  amid  heart-rending  soul-travail,  are 
those  which  will  never  be  allowed  to  die,  because 
perennial  sources  of  inspiration  and  comfort.  It 
was  thus  with  the  child  of  whom  we  have  this 
brief  record.  We  might  becomingly  weave  the 
four  petitions  of  the  prayer  of  Jabez  into  the  sup- 
plications of  each  new  morning  hour. 

To  be  blessed  iitdeed. — Not  the  lower  springs 
only,  but  the  upper  ones  also ;  not  life  alone, 
but  life  more  abundantly;  not  those  blessings 
only  which  pertain  to  the  body  or  worldly  cir- 
cumstance, but  those  spiritual  ones  of  the  heaven- 
lies,  that  are  the  best  donation  man  can  receive 
or  God  bestow. 

A  larger  coast. — There  is  a  godly  ambition 
which  may  be  reverently  cherished  for  wider  in- 
fluence over  men,  not  for  its  own  sake,  but  for 
the  Master's.  You  may  feel  that  you  have  ful- 
filled the  measure  of  your  present  possibilities, 
but  have  unexhausted  powers  and  talents.  Tell 
God  so,  and  ask  for  a  wider  extent  of  territory  to 
bring  under  cultivation  for  Him. 

Thine  hand  with  me. — The  father  puts  his 
hand  on  the  boy's  hand  as  he  draws  back  the 
bowstring,  strengthening  the  thin. arms  of  youth. 
So  will  the  mighty  God  of  Jacob  do  for  you. 

Keep  me  from  evil. — You  cannot  keep  your 
heart-door  shut  when  a  tumult  of  temptation  or 
care  assaults  it  from  without ;  but  God's  peace 
and  grace,  like  angel  sentries,  can  avail  you. 
Though  tempted,  you  may  be  kept  in  the  tempta- 
tion and  delivered  from  the  evil.  Thus  your 
spirit,  and  the  Huly  Spirit,  shall  be  ungrieved. 
106 


They  cried  to   God  in  the  battle ^  and  He  was  en- 
treated of  them.  I  Chron.  V.  20. 

WHETHER  they  cried  to  God  before  they 
went  into  the  battle  we  are  not  told  ;  but  prob- 
ably they  did,  because  we  read  that  the  war  was 
of  God,  and  it  is  hardly  likely  that  they  would 
have  prayed  to  Him  in  the  midst  of  the  fight, 
when  the  foemen's  blows  fell  like  hail  on  their 
armor,  if  they  had  not  prayed  before  they  entered 
the  bloody  fray.  Men  often  excuse  themselves 
for  neglecting  their  morning  devotions  by  saying 
that  they  will  surely  look  to  God,  as  they  may  re- 
quire His  gracious  help,  in  the  midst  of  the  day's 
temptations  and  needs ;  but,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
when  once  they  are  plunged  into  its  war  they  for- 
get to  look  up.  You  must  direct  your  prayer  in 
the  morning,  and  look  up  whilst  the  early  shad- 
ows lie  long  on  the  dewy  grass,  if  you  would 
keep  looking  off  to  Jesus,  amid  the  din  of  the 
fight. 

It  is  very  lovely  to  contract  and  preserve  this 
habit  of  looking  upward,  and  crying  to  God  in 
the  battle.  When  our  feet  are  slipping,  when  the 
foe  seems  about  to  overmaster,  when  heart  and 
flesh  fail — how  refreshing  and  strengthening  to 
fling  one  eager  look  or  cry  to  heaven,  and  say, 
"  I  am  thine,  save  me."  There  can  be  no  doubt 
as  to  the  issue.  God  is  always  intreated  of  those 
who  put  their  trust  in  Him.  Sooner  might  a 
mother  forget  her  sucking  child  than  God  be  un- 
mindful of  one  sigh,  or  tear,  or  upward  glancing 
look  from  His  own.  Oh,  child  of  God,  put  thou 
thy  trust  in  God,  and  go  through  this  tempestu- 
ous world  as  one  who  is  confident  of  a  Divine 
Ally.  At  any  moment  He  will  ride  on  the 
heavens  to  thy  help.  "Let  us  therefore  come 
boldly  unto  the  throne  of  grace  that  we  may  ob- 
tain mercy,  and  find  grace  to  help  in  time  of 
need." 

107 


Herman  the  singer. 

I  Chron.  vi.  jj. 

THIS  is  a  very  brief  record  to  put  on  a  man's 
grave,  but  a  very  expressive  one.  To  decipher 
that  epitaph  about  Herman  is  to  learn  a  good 
deal  about  him.  From  this  clue  we  might  almost 
construct  his  entire  personality  and  character. 
And  it  would  be  well  if  it  could  be  said  of  us 
that  we  had  ministered  with  song  before  the 
tabernacle  of  the  Lord. 

Would  you  be  a  singer ;  not  on  Sundays  only, 
but  always;  not  with  your  voice  only,  but  in 
your  heart;  not  only  when  the  sunshine  pours 
into  the  open  casement  through  the  swaying 
boughs  of  honeysuckle,  but  when  the  shuttert 
tell  of  bereavement  and  removal — then  remember 
these  rules: — (ist.)  God  must  put  the  new  song 
into  your  mouth;  (2d.)  You  must  be  fully  con- 
secrated to  Him  ;  for  the  song  of  the  Lord  only 
begins  when  the  burnt-offering  is  complete.  (3d.) 
You  must  not  go  into  a  strange  land,  for  it  is  im- 
possible to  sing  the  Lord's  song  there. 

Sing  on,  dear  heart,  sing  on.  There  is  noth- 
ing that  scares  off  the  devil  so  quickly  as  a  hymn. 
Luther  said,  **  Let  us  sing  a  hymn,  and  spite  the 
devil."  There  is  nothing  that  so  well  beguiles 
the  pilgrim's  step,  and  quickens  his  pace,  when 
the  miles  are  growing  long  and  weary.  There  is 
nothing  that  brings  so  much  of  heaven  into  the 
heart.  Singing  makes  every  movement  rhythmic, 
every  service  praise,  every  act  thanksgiving. 
Sing  when  times  are  dark,  you  will  make  them 
bright ;  sing  when  the  house  of  life  is  lonely,  it 
will  become  peopled  with  unseen  choristers;  go 
down  into  the  valley  of  shadow  with  a  song,  and 
you  will  find  yourself  singing  the  new  song  of 
Moses  and  the  Lamb  when  you  awake  on  the 
other  side. 


108 


//  went  evil  with  his  house. 

I  Chron.  vii.  2J. 

IT  is  an  old-world  tale,  and  those  tears  have 
long  since  been  wiped  away.  What  led  to  the 
death  of  so  many  of  the  stalwart  sons  of  Ephraim 
is  not  quite  clear ;  but  apparently  they  made  a 
raid  from  the  hill-fastnesses  on  the  men  of  Gath 
to  lift  their  cattle,  and  were  repelled  with  great 
disaster.  At  any  rate,  they  were  slain  by  men  of 
Gath,  that  were  born  in  the  land.  They  were 
part  of  the  early  nations  of  Canaan,  that  should 
have  been  destroyed.  This  suggests  a  significant 
train  of  thought.  We  must  beware  of  the  ten- 
dencies and  impulses  which  were  born  in  us, 
which  we  have  inherited. 

They  are  strong  in  all  of  us.  Parents  transmit 
to  an  awful  extent  their  own  passions.  What  a 
reason  this  is  for  carefully  curbing  them  !  I  have 
known  the  children  of  drunkards,  grown  to  mid- 
dle-life, who  have  confessed  that  they  have  never 
spent  a  day  without  the  conscious  craving  for 
alcohol.  These  are  the  men  of  Gath,  born  in 
the  land,  who  will  slay  us  unless  we  are  on  our 
guard. 

There  will  be  irremediable  sorrow  if  we  yield 
to  them.  Many  days  of  mourning  will  not  avail 
to  wipe  out  the  sad  and  bitter  memory  of  the  dis- 
aster, when  once  they  have  wreaked  their  wild 
will  on  us.  If  permitted  within,  they  will,  like 
traitors,  open  the  door  to  Satan  without. 

But  faith  is  the  victory.  He  that  believeth 
that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God ;  he  in  whom  Jesus 
lives  by  the  Holy  Spirit;  he  who  knows  the 
Stronger  than  the  strong  man  armed,  shall  be 
kept  from  falling,  and  preserved  unto  God's 
heavenly  kingdom.  *'  Walk  in  the  Spirit,  and 
ye  shall  not  fulfill  the  lust  of  the  flesh.  For  the 
flesh  lusteth  against  the  Spirit,  and  the  Spirit 
against  the  flesh." 

109 


Esh'baal,  ,   .  .  Merib-baal. 

J  Chron.  viii.  33, 34. 

BAAL  was  the  idol-god  of  Zidon  and  of  many 
surrounding  nations.  This  idol,  representing  the 
sun  in  his  productive  force,  was  worshipped  with 
impure  and  scandalous  rites.  The  introduction 
of  this  name  into  the  appellation  of  one  of  Saul's 
sons  indicates  the  secret  root  of  the  declension 
and  consequent  misfortunes  of  that  ill-fated  mon- 
arch. In  the  earlier  part  of  his  reign  he  was 
perfect  in  his  allegiance  to  Jehovah — -Jonathan 
means  **Gift  of  Jehovah" — but  as  the  years 
went  on,  he  became  proud  and  self-sufficient ;  he 
turned  to  Baal,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  departed 
from  him,  and  an  evil  spirit  rushed  in  to  take 
His  place,  as  wind  rushes  in  to  fill  a  vacuum. 

The  name  which  Jonathan  gave  his  son  had 
another  significance.  Merib-baal  is  one  who  op- 
poses Baal.  It  is  as  though  he  would  indelibly 
stamp  upon  his  child  an  undying  hatred  and  op- 
position to  that  idolatry  which  was  undoing  his 
father's  character  and  kingdom.  In  this  choice 
of  his  child's  name  we  also  gather  the  deep- 
seated  piety  and  devotion  of  that  noble  soul, 
whose  heart  was  true  to  God  amid  the  darkening 
shadows  of  his  father's  reign.  It  was  this  that 
probably  drew  David  and  him  so  closely  in  af- 
finity. 

How  absolutely  necessary  it  is  for  the  peace  of 
a  household  that  there  should  be  a  oneness  of  de- 
votion to  God  1  Where  that  is  the  first  consider- 
ation, there  is  peace  and  blessedness;  and  that  it 
may  be  so,  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that 
the  parents  should  be  constant  in  their  godly 
allegiance.  The  ruin  of  Saul's  home,  family, 
and  realm,  began  in  his  personal  disloyalty  to 
God  ;  and  how  far  he  influenced  the  nation  for 
evil  it  is  difficult  to  estimate. 


110 


Chosen   to   he  porters  .  .   .  appointed  over   the 
furniture ;  .   .   .  the  singers. 

I  Chron.  ix.  22,  2gy  31, 33. 

WHAT  a  busy  scene  is  suggested  in  these 
words  !  When  the  morning  broke,  it  called  to 
duty  first  the  porters  who  opened  the  House  of 
God  ;  and  then,  after  due  ablution,  each  band  of 
white-robed  Levites  began  its  special  service. 
There  was  no  running  to  and  fro  in  disorder,  no 
intrusion  on  one  another's  office,  no  clashing  in 
duty,  no  jealousy  of  each  other's  ministry.  It 
was  enough  to  know  that  each  had  been  ap- 
pointed to  his  task,  and  was  asked  to  be  faithful 
to  it.  The  right  ordering  of  the  whole  depended 
on  the  punctuality,  fidelity,  and  conscientious- 
ness of  each. 

So  it  is  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  each  is  spe- 
cially gifted  for  some  post  to  which  he  has  been  set 
apart.  One  to  see  to  the  gates,  admitting  souls 
to  the  kingdom ;  one  to  the  baking  in  pans,  at- 
tending to  the  feeding  of  the  household  of  God; 
some  are  appointed  to  the  furnishing  and  main- 
taining of  the  House  of  Prayer;  others  to  the 
psalmody,  as  the  hymn-writers  of  our  praise  and 
holy  song.  How  beautiful  it  is  when  we  dwell 
together  in  this  unity,  not  envying  one  another, 
nor  interfering  in  each  other's  ministry.  "  He 
gave  some,  apostles ;  and  some,  prophets ;  and 
some,  evangelists ;  and  some,  pastors  and  teach- 
ers :  for  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of 
Christ."  Whatever  is  successfully  done  by  the 
Church  is  accredited  by  Christ  to  each  faithful 
servant,  just  as  the  impression  produced  on  the 
audience  by  an  orchestra  is  the  result  of  each  in- 
strument, even  to  the  piccolo,  doing  its  part. 
Whatever  is  done  by  the  whole,  is  done  by  each 
part  of  the  whole.  Be  content  with  the  position 
to  which  thy  Master  has  assigned  thee,  and  let 
thine  eye  be  single  unto  Him.  So  shall  each 
have  praise  of  God. 

Ill 


So  Saul  died  for  his  trespass. 

I  Chron.  x.  /j  (r.  v.). 

IT  is  suggestive  to  ponder  the  threefold  analy- 
sis of  Saul's  trespass  as  given  here.  He  kept  not 
the  word  of  the  Lord — this  probably  refers  to  his 
failure  to  execute  the  sentence  on  Amalek;  he 
asked  counsel  of  one  that  had  a  familiar  spirit — 
this  errand  had  taken  him  to  Endor  on  the  eve  of 
the  battle;  he  inquired  not  of  the  Lord — this 
was  conspicuously  the  case  in  his  persecution  of 
David. 

Do  we  sufficiently  inquire  of  the  Lord  ?  We 
ask  the  advice  of  our  friends  and  religious  teach- 
ers; we  sometimes  use  doubtful  methods  of  as- 
certaining God's  will,  as  allowing  the  Bible  to 
drop  open,  or  interpreting  some  coincidence  in 
the  way  we  secretly  desire  to  follow;  besides 
which  there  is  an  increasing  tendency  in  society 
to  use  the  crystal,  to  consult  spiritualistic  me- 
diums, to  employ  palmistry.  These  latter,  of 
course,  repeat  the  sin  of  Saul,  in  going  to  Endor ; 
and  the  resort  to  them  on  the  part  of  children  of 
tliis  world  shows  that  the  heart  of  man  must  have 
something  exterior  to  itself  for  worship  and  trust ; 
if  it  has  forsaken  God  it  will  deal  with  the  devil, 
rather  than  drift  on  alone.  But  let  us  all  culti- 
vate more  carefully  the  blessed  habit  of  waiting 
on  God.  If  we  ask  Him  for  guidance.  He  will 
be  sure  to  impart  it ;  only  we  must  put  aside  all 
selfish  and  personal  ends,  desiring  to  know  His 
will,  with  a  single  purpose,  and  an  unalloyed  de- 
termination to  follow  it  at  any  cost. 

Christ  has  told  us  that  willingness  to  do  His 
will,  is  the  sure  organ  of  spiritual  knowledge. 
'*  He  that  wills  to  do  His  will,  shall  know."  Be 
of  good  cheer,  beloved,  God  hath  chosen  thee 
that  thou  shouldst  know  His  will,  and  see  that 
Just  One,  and  shouldst  hear  the  voice  of  His 
mouth. 

112 


Oh  that  one  would  give  me  drink  of  the  water  of 
the  well  of  Bethlehem  !  i  Chron.  xi.  17. 

DAVID  had  often  drunk  of  this  well.  As  a 
boy  he  had  gone  with  his  mother  to  draw  its 
clear,  cold  water.  It  was,  therefore,  associated 
with  the  happy  days  of  childhood  and  youth  that 
lay  behind  the  haze  of  the  years.  In  the  sultry 
afternoon,  as,  from  the  cave  in  which  he  was  hid- 
ing, he  looked  across  the  valley  where  his  ances- 
tress Ruth  had  gleaned  in  the  fields  of  Boaz,  to 
the  long  straggling  town  of  his  birth,  it  seemed 
as  though  nothing  could  stay  his  passionate  long- 
ing for  a  draught  of  the  water  of  the  well  of 
Bethlehem  that  was  at  the  gate. 

Sometimes  longings  like  his  take  possession  of 
us.  We  desire  to  drink  again  the  waters  of  com- 
parative innocence,  of  childlike  trust  and  joy  ;  to 
drink  again  of  the  fountains  of  human  love;  to 
have  the  bright,  fresh  rapture  in  God  and  nature, 
and  home.  But  it  is  a  mistake  to  look  back. 
Here  and  now,  within  us,  Jesus  is  waiting  to  open 
the  well  of  living  water  which  springs  up  to  eter- 
nal life,  of  which  if  we  drink  we  never  thirst. 

Purity  is  better  than  innocence ;  the  blessed- 
ness which  comes  through  suffering  is  richer  than 
the  gladsomeness  of  childhood  ;  the  peace  of  the 
heart  is  more  than  peace  of  circumstances.  We 
have  solace  in  Jesus,  which  even  the  dear  love  of 
home  could  not  equal ;  and  before  us  lies  the  re- 
union with  the  blessed  dead.  How  shall  we 
thank  Him  who,  at  the  cost  of  His  own  blood, 
broke  through  the  hosts  of  our  foes,  and  won  for 
us  the  river  of  life ;  and  who  forevermore  will 
lead  us  to  the  fountains,  where  life  rises  fresh 
from  the  heart  of  God  ?  Listen  to  His  voice  as 
He  bids  us  drink  abundantly  :  "  Let  him  that 
is  athirst  come  ;  and  whosoever  will,  let  him  take 
the  water  of  life  freely." 


113 


All  these  tnen  of  waj',  that  could  keep  ranky  came 
to  make  David  ki?ig.  i  Chron.  xU.  j8. 

THE  crowning  of  David  secured  the  unity  of 
Israel.  Because  all  these  men  of  war  converged 
on  the  chosen  king,  they  met  each  other,  and  be- 
came one  great  nation.  The  enthroning  of  David 
was  the  uniting  of  the  kingdom.  Herein  is  the 
secret  of  the  unity  of  the  Church.  We  shall 
never  secure  it  by  endeavoring  to  bring  about  an 
unity  in  thought,  or  act,  or  organization.  It  is 
as  each  individual  heart  enthrones  the  Saviour 
that  each  will  become  one  with  all  kindred  souls 
in  the  everlasting  kingdom. 

Is  your  heart  perfect  to  make  Christ  king?  We 
read  in  verse  33  of  Zebulon,  whose  warriors  were 
not  of  a  double  heart ;  the  margin  says  they  were 
**  without  a  heart  and  a  heart."  The  double- 
minded  man  is  unstable  in  all  his  ways;  he  is  not 
to  be  relied  upon  in  his  loyalty  or  service  to  his 
king.  The  only  blessed  life  is  that  of  the  man 
whose  eye  is  single.  It  is  only  such  an  one  that 
receives  anything  from  the  Lord.  Let  us  ask 
that  the  thoughts  of  our  hearts  may  be  cleansed 
by  the  inspiration  of  God's  Holy  Spirit,  that  our 
hearts  may  be  perfect  toward  Him,  and  so  per- 
fect to  all  who  hold  Jesus  as  King  and  Head, 
though  they  differ  from  us  in  minor  points.  Dif- 
ferent regiments,  but  one  army,  one  movement, 
one  king. 

Let  us  learn  to  keep  rank,  shoulder  to  shoulder, 
and  in  step,  with  our  brethren.  Too  many  like 
to  break  the  ranks,  and  do  God's  work  independ- 
ently. Fifty  men  who  act  together  will  do 
greater  execution  than  five  hundred  acting  apart. 
There  is  too  much  of  this  guerilla  fighting. 
Unity  is  strength  ;  and  in  their  efforts  to  over- 
throw the  kingdom  of  Satan  it  is  most  essential 
that  the  soldiers  of  Christ  move  in  rank  and  keep 
step. 

114 


And  David  was  afraid  of  God  that  day. 

I  Chron.  xiii.  12. 

THERE  was  no  reason  for  David  to  be  afraid 
of  God,  if  he  conformed  to  the  rules  laid  down 
in  Leviticus.  There  it  was  expressly  ordained 
that  the  Ark  should  be  carried  on  the  shoulders 
of  the  priests,  because  the  cause  of  God  must 
proceed  through  the  world  by  the  means  of  con- 
secrated men,  rather  than  by  mechanical  instru- 
mentality. David  ignored  this  provision  when 
he  placed  the  Ark  on  the  new  cart.  He  diso- 
beyed the  distinct  law  of  the  Divine  procedure. 
What  wonder  that  Uzza  was  struck  dead  !  Fire 
will  burn  if  you  persist  in  violating  its  law. 
Obed-edom,  on  the  other  hand,  studiously  obeyed, 
so  far  as  he  knew  them,  the  Divine  regulations, 
and  to  him  the  Ark  was  a  source  of  blessing ; 
just  as  fire  will  toil  for  us  in  our  furnaces  and 
grates,  and  be  the  greatest  possible  benediction 
to  human  life,  if  only  we  carefully  conform  to 
its  ascertained  and  immutable  law. 

God  is  to  us  what  we  are  to  Him.  To  Pharaoh, 
blackness  and  darkness ;  to  Israel,  light  and  help. 
To  the  froward.  He  is  froward;  to  the  merciful 
man,  merciful.  To  one  of  the  thieves,  the  cross 
of  Christ  was  the  savor  of  death  unto  death,  be- 
cause his  heart  was  impenitent ;  to  the  other, 
the  savor  of  life  unto  life,  because  his  heart  was 
soft  and  believing.  You  need  not  fear  God  so 
long  as  you  walk  in  His  ways  and  do  His  will. 
He  is  to  be  feared  only  by  those  who  violate  His 
law.  God  is  a  consuming  fire.  He  will  make  a 
breach  on  those  who  disobey  Him.  He  will  con- 
sume the  evil  of  our  inner  life.  But  let  Him  be 
welcomed  into  your  life  and  home  ;  let  the  Ark, 
which  is  the  symbol  of  His  presence,  dwell 
within  ;  bring  up  your  children  to  minister  unto 
Him  ;  and  you  will  be  blessed  with  all  that  you 
have. 

115 


Then  thou  s  ha  It  go  out  to  battle;  for  God  is  gone 
forth  before  thee.  i  Chron.  xiv.  75. 

WHAT  was  this  *'  going  "  ?  It  was  not  merely 
a  fitful  breeze  stealing  through  the  leaves;  it  was 
not  the  going  of  the  wind;  but  of  angel  squad- 
rons who  were  proceeding  against  the  enemies  of 
Israel.  This  thought  often  occurs  in  Scripture — 
as  when  Jacob  met  God's  host ;  and  the  warrior- 
Saviour  told  Joshua  that  He  was  captain  of  a  host 
whom  God  had  commissioned  to  take  Jericho ;  so 
also  the  horses  and  chariots  of  fire  surrounded 
Elisha.  Hearken  to  the  measured  footfall  of 
God's  host,  beneath  which  the  mulberry  trees 
sway,  though  no  wind  stirs  the  sultry  air. 

God's  hosts  go  forth  against  His  foes  and  ours. 
Perhaps  we  should  feel  less  oppressed  with  the 
burden  of  the  fight  if  we  realized  this.  The  bat- 
tle is  not  ours,  but  God's.  He  will  deliver  the 
Philistines  to  us  so  that  we  shall  have  to  do  little 
else  than  fight  and  spoil.  Oh,  believe  in  the  co- 
operation of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Lonely  missionary 
in  some  distant  station  of  the  foreign  field,  listen 
for  the  moving  in  the  tops  of  the  mulberry  trees ! 
God  is  stirring  for  thy  succor.  Thou  art  a  co- 
worker with  Him  in  making  known  His  salva- 
tion ;  and  He  will  prosper  thee. 

Let  us  wait  for  our  instructions.  David  in- 
quired of  the  Lord ;  let  us  not  anticipate  Him. 
It  is  useless  to  go  up  until  He  has  gone  out  before 
us.  We  may  as  well  save  ourselves  from  disap- 
pointment by  quietly  waiting  for  the  salvation  of 
our  God.  But  oh,  be  sure  that  those  who  wait 
for  God  shall  not  be  long  before  the  God  for 
whom  they  wait  shall  go  forth  before  them  to 
smite  the  host,  whether  it  be  the  hosts  of  temp- 
tation that  oppress  the  inner  life,  or  the  hosts  of 
spiritual  foes  that  oppose  the  progress  of  God's 
work. 


116 


And  Chenaniah,   chief  of  the   Levites^  was  for 
song.  I  C/iron.  XV.  22. 

THE  carrying  of  the  Ark  to  its  right  place  was 
associated  with  every  expression  of  gladness  on 
the  part  of  king  and  people;  but  there  were 
some  who  were  specially  set  apart  as  the  expo- 
nents of  the  general  joy.  In  the  old  time  such 
were  David,  Heman,  Asaph,  Chenaniah ;  in  our 
time.  Watts  and  Doddridge,  Wesley  and  Toplady, 
Keble,  Havergal,  and  Bonar. 

It  is  good  to  be  for  song.  Many  a  heart  that 
cannot  rank  as  a  musician  or  poet,  may  yet  be 
susceptible  to  the  joy  of  the  Lord,  which  is  ever 
passing  through  creation,  catching  it  up  so  as  to 
express  it.  As  the  Ark  of  the  Lord  comes  to  its 
place  within  you,  sing. 

Song  is  harmony  with  the  life  of  God.  The 
will  of  God  sometimes  enters  life  as  a  sigh,  as 
David's  first  attempt  to  move  the  Ark ;  but  after- 
ward it  becomes  a  song,  as  in  the  second  attempt. 
Enshrine  the  Ark  of  God  with  its  tables  of  stone, 
its  mercy-seat  of  fellowship,  its  worshipping 
Cherubim  in  the  Holy  of  Holies  within ;  and 
you  will  find  sighs  turned  to  songs,  tears  to 
thanks,  mourning  to  the  garment  of  praise. 

Worship  the  will  of  God.  Conform  your  life 
with  it.  Draw  on  the  ground  a  circle  to  repre- 
sent God's  will,  and  step  into  it,  resolving  never 
to  step  out  of  its  blessed  precincts  again.  Dare 
to  believe  and  confess  that  Paradise  lies  within, 
though  it  may  be  veiled  to  sight  and  sense.  Ac- 
cording to  your  faith  it  shall  be  unto  you.  If 
you  believe  that  heaven  is  there,  you  will  find 
heaven.  The  Ark  of  God  is  ever  a  provocative 
of  song.  His  statutes  seem  awful  in  the  dis- 
tance ;  but  so  soon  as  we  begin  to  practice  them, 
they  turn  to  songs. 


117 


Talk  ye  of  all  His  wondrous  works. 

I  Chron.  xvi.  g. 

WE  do  not  talk  sufficiently  about  God.  Why 
it  is  so  may  not  be  easy  to  explain ;  but  there 
seems  a  too  great  reticence  among  Christian  peo- 
ple about  the  best  things.  In  the  days  of  Mala- 
chi,  "  they  that  feared  the  Lord  spake  often  one 
to  another,  and  the  Lord  hearkened  and  heard." 
We  talk  about  sermons,  details  of  worship  and 
church  organization,  or  the  latest  phase  of  Scrip- 
ture criticism;  we  discuss  men,  methods,  and 
churches;  but  our  talk  in  the  home,  and  in  the 
gatherings  of  Christians  for  social  purposes,  is 
too  seldom  about  the  wonderful  works  of  God. 
Better  to  speak  less,  and  to  talk  more  of  Him. 

But  probably  the  real  cause  of  our  avoidance 
of  this  best  of  topics,  is  that  our  hearts  are  filled 
with  so  much  which  is  not  of  God,  and  they 
speak  out  of  their  abundance.  You  may  judge 
the  contents  of  a  shop  by  what  is  put  in  the  win- 
dows, and  you  may  judge  of  the  inner  life  of  too 
many  Christians  by  the  subjects  which  are  most 
familiar  to  their  lips.  The  heart  does  not  seek 
for  God  and  His  strength,  nor  His  face  continu- 
ally ;  and  therefore  we  find  it  hard  to  talk  of  all 
His  wondrous  works. 

But  go  back  in  thought  to  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost. One  of  the  first  signs  of  the  descent  of  the 
blessed  Spirit  was  that  the  crowd  heard  every  man 
speaking  in  his  own  tongue  the  wonderful  works 
of  God.  What  God  has  done  in  the  past,  as  re- 
corded on  the  page  of  Scripture;  what  He  is 
doing  day  by  day  in  the  world  around,  and  in 
our  hearts;  what  He  has  promised  to  do  on  the 
horizon  where  heaven  and  earth  shall  blend  in 
the  Second  Advent ;  yield  fit  themes  on  which 
His  children  may  beamingly  talk  to  each  other, 
till  He  goes  beside  and  talks  with  them  till  their 
hearts  burn. 

118 


Do  as  thou  hast  said^  that  thy  name  may  be  mag- 
nified forever.  I  Chron.  xvii.  2j,  24. 

THIS  is  a  most  blessed  phase  of  true  prayer. 
Many  a  time  we  ask  for  things  which  are  not  ab- 
sokitely  promised.  We  are  not  sure  therefore 
until  we  have  persevered  for  some  time  whether 
our  petitions  are  in  the  line  of  God's  purpose  or 
no.  There  are  other  occasions,  and  in  the  life  of 
David  this  was  one,  when  we  are  fully  persuaded 
that  what  we  ask  is  according  to  God's  will.  We 
feel  led  to  take  up  and  plead  some  promise  from 
the  page  of  Scripture,  under  the  special  impres- 
sion that  it  contains  a  message  for  us. 

At  such  times,  in  confident  faith,  we  say,  "  Do 
as  Thou  hast  said."  There  is  hardly  any  posi- 
tion more  utterly  beautiful,  strong,  or  safe,  than 
to  put  the  finger  upon  some  promise  of  the  Di- 
vine word,  and  claim  it.  There  need  be  no 
anguish,  or  struggle,  or  wrestling;  we  simply 
present  the  check  and  ask  for  cash,  produce  the 
promise,  and  claim  its  fulfillment ;  nor  can  there 
be  any  doubt  as  to  the  issue.  It  would  give  much 
interest  to  prayer,  if  we  were  more  definite.  It 
is  far  better  to  claim  a  few  things  specifically  than 
a  score  vaguely. 

David's  argument  was  not  simply  that  his  house 
might  be  established,  but  that  God's  name  might 
be  magnified  forever.  It  is  good  when  we  can 
lose  sight  of  our  personal  interests  in  our  keen 
desire  for  His  glory.  When  we  are  so  delivered 
from  egotism,  that  Christ  is  all  and  in  all.  Let 
the  attitude  of  your  soul  be  more  toward  the 
glory  of  God ;  and  as  you  quote  promise  after 
promise  for  the  enthroning  of  Ciirist,  the  saving 
of  men,  and  the  sanctification  of  your  soul,  dare 
in  humble  faith  to  say.  Do  as  Thou  hast  said, 
that  thy  Name  may  be  magnified  forever. 


119 


He  put  garrisons  in  Edom  ;  and  all  the  Edomites 
became  servants  to  David.  i  Chron.  xviii.  ij. 

EDOM  and  Israel  were  closely  related,  but 
there  was  constant  rivalry  and  war  between  the 
two  peoples.  Sometimes  Israel  held  the  upper- 
hand  for  a  little ;  but  Edom  soon  broke  loose 
again,  and  resumed  the  old  independence,  with 
the  border  forays  (2  Chron.  xxi.  10;  xxv.  11- 
14  ;  Ps.  cxxxvii.  7).  Now  as  Edom  stands  for 
the  flesh,  which  hungers  for  the  savory  dish,  and 
is  willing  to  give  even  its  birthright  of  spiritual 
power  to  secure  it — this  long  feud  is  full  of  inter- 
est to  us.  It  reminds  us  of  the  strife  of  Rom. 
vii.,  between  the  will  of  the  renewed  man  and 
the  law  of  the  members,  ever  striving  for  mastery. 

We  turn  on  the  pages  of  our  Bibles  to  Isa. 
Ixiii.,  where  a  mighty  Conqueror  is  seen  coming 
toward  the  southern  frontier  of  Palestine,  with 
His  back  on  Bozrah  and  Edom.  His  garments 
are  dyed  with  the  blood  of  Israel's  foes ;  and  be- 
hind Him  cities  are  desolate  and  depopulated, 
territories  are  laid  waste  without  inhabitant,  and 
Edom's  hostility  is  forever  quenched  in  blood. 
What  a  portraiture  is  here  of  Jesus  '*  mighty  to 
save,"  who  in  His  cross  triumphed  over  princi- 
palities and  powers,  and  made  a  show  of  them 
openly.  He  has  overcome  the  world,  the  flesh, 
and  the  prince  of  the  power  of  darkness ;  and 
stands  forevermore  between  us,  and  our  former 
oppressors. 

Let  us  resign  the  conflict  wholly  to  Him.  We 
have  sought  in  vain  for  victory  by  resolutions  and 
endeavors ;  by  close  attention  to  religious  duties ; 
by  occupying  our  mind  with  various  interests,  so 
that  we  had  no  leisure  to  be  tempted ;  by  diet 
and  exercise.  Now,  hand  the  conflict  absolutely 
over  to  Jesus :  do  not  even  try  to  help  Him  :  just 
let  Him  do  all :  be  quite  still,  and  when  tempta- 
tion comes,  let  Him  meet  it. 

130 


Let  us  behave  ourselves  valiantly  for  our  people, 
and  for  the  cities  of  our  God.      i  Chron.  xix.  ij. 

THOSE  were  days  in  which  rough  soldiers, 
like  Joab,  did  not  hesitate  to  speak  freely  of  God 
to  their  companions  in  arms.  It  is  a  sorry  thing 
that  it  is  considered  a  breach  of  etiquette  to  men- 
tion God's  name  in  polite  society.  **  It  is  not 
good  form  !  " 

We  are  reminded  in  these  words  of  Joab  of 
Cromwell's  memorable  advice  to  trust  in  God  and 
keep  the  powder  dry.  David's  General  felt  that 
the  ultimate  issue  of  the  battle  must  be  left  to 
God ;  but  that  nothing  could  absolve  him  and 
his  soldiers  from  doing  their  best.  They,  at 
least,  must  make  careful  dispositions  for  the  fight, 
and  show  themselves  valiant. 

This  balance  of  statement  and  thought  between 
God's  work  and  ours  is  an  evidence  of  fine  Chris- 
tian sanity.  We  must  believe  that  God  is  the 
ultimate  arbiter,  but  we  must  ever  speak  and  act 
as  though  the  responsibility  were  entirely  on  our- 
selves. To  believe  that  God  will  do  all,  and 
therefore  to  do  nothing,  is  as  bad  as  to  believe 
that  God  leaves  us  to  our  unaided  endeavors.  We 
believe  in  the  strength  and  sufficiency  of  God's 
purpose;  but  we  know  that  there  is  a  link  in  the 
chain  of  causation  which  we  must  supply. 

The  servant  of  God  who  counts  most  absolutely 
on  the  communion  and  cooperation  of  the 
Divine  Spirit  will  be  most  careful  in  making  all 
needful  disposition  for  the  fight.  He  will  leave 
no  stone  unturned  to  secure  the  victory,  though 
he  knows  that  the  ultimate  decision  rests  with 
God.  The  conquests  of  the  cross  recorded  in  the 
Acts  of  the  Apostles  were  the  result  of  the 
united  action  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  men 
who  were  sent  forth  with  the  message  of  the 
gospel.     "  We  are  laborers  together  with  God." 


121 


The  time  when  Kings  go  out  to  battle.   .  .  .  But 
David  tarried  at  Jerusalem.  i  Chron.  xx.  i. 

THERE  are  times  and  tides  in  the  affairs  of 
men.  Favorable  moments  for  doing  and  daring, 
for  attempting  and  achieving.  Hours  when  the 
ship  must  be  launched,  or  it  will  have  to  wait  for 
another  spring  tide.  Days  when  the  seed  must 
be  sown,  or  it  will  have  to  tarry  till  another  au- 
tumn. Royal  natures  show  their  quality  by 
taking  advantage  of  times  like  these,  when  God 
and  circumstances  favor  a  great  attempt. 

Alas,  if  long-continued  prosperity  has  robbed 
the  kingly  soul  of  its  desire  or  power  to  use  its 
sacred  opportunity  !  Once  missed,  it  may  never 
recur ;  and  the  soul  that  has  missed  it  contemns 
itself,  and  loses  heart,  and  surrenders  itself  to 
lower  and  ever  lower  depths  of  temptation. 

Beware  of  moments  and  hours  of  ease.  It  is 
in  these  that  we  most  easily  fall  into  the  power  of 
Satan.  The  sultriest  summer  days  are  most  laden 
with  blight.  There  is  no  such  guard  against 
temptation — next  to  the  keeping  power  of  Jesus, 
which  is  all-sufficient — as  occupation  to  the  full 
measure  of  time  and  capacity.  If  we  cannot  fill 
our  days  with  our  own  matters,  there  is  always 
plenty  to  be  done  for  others.  You  think  that  no 
one  has  hired  you,  but  it  is  not  so ;  the  Master 
has  sent  you  into  His  vineyard.  If  you  cannot 
do  one  thing,  you  can  another.  There  is  the 
ministry  of  intercession  for  those  who  are  in  the 
field.  There  is  the  exercise  of  worship,  in  which 
you  take  your  place  amongst  the  priests.  There 
is  the  ministry  of  comfort  to  some  of  the  sad 
hearts  within  your  own  circle.  Redeem  the 
time,  because  the  days  are  evil.  Watch  and  pray 
in  days  of  vacation  and  ease,  even  more  than  at 
other  times. 


122 


And  David  said  unto  God,  I  have  sinned  greatly 
ifi  that  I  have  done  this  thing. 

I  Chron.  xxi.  8  (r.  v.). 

HIS  sin  lay  in  the  spirit  of  pride  and  display. 
He  vaunted  in  the  growing  numbers  of  Israel, 
and  credited  them  to  himself,  as  the  result  of  his 
own  prowess  and  prudence.  All  such  boasting  is 
very  abhorrent  to  the  all-holy  God,  who  will  not 
give  His  glory  to  another.  It  was  the  sin  of 
Nebuchadnezzar,  when  he  said,  **Is  not  this 
great  Babylon  which  I  have  built  ?  "  It  was  the 
sin  of  Herod  Agrippa  when  the  people  shouted, 
saying,  *'  The  voice  of  a  god,  and  not  of  a  man  "; 
and  immediately  the  angel  of  the  Lord  smote 
him,  "  because  he  gave  not  God  the  glory." 

We  are  all  tempted  to  it  when  we  count  up  the 
number  of  our  adherents  and  converts  ;  when  we 
unroll  our  securities  and  vouchers ;  when  we 
count  up  our  assets;  when  we  display  our  jewels. 
All  these  are  gifts  entrusted  to  our  care  by  our 
Father  and  Saviour,  to  be  held  in  trust  as  a  mat- 
ter for  gratitude  rather  than  for  pride. 

How  greatly  David  had  fallen  from  the  level  of 
his  own  sweet  sonnet  I — ''Lord,  my  heart  is  not 
haughty,  nor  my  eyes  lofty."  Oh,  let  us  ask  our 
Master  Christ  to  teach  us  how  to  be  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart,  that  we  may  find  rest  unto  our 
souls ;  let  us  endeavor  to  be  as  little  children, 
devoid  of  self-consciousness ;  and  let  us  be  care- 
ful, as  we  survey  the  growing  treasures  and  power 
of  our  lives,  to  remember  the  Apostle's  words : 
'/  Who  maketh  thee  to  differ?  and  what  hast  thou 
that  thou  didst  not  receive?  But  if  thou  didst  re- 
ceive it,  why  dost  thou  glory,  as  if  thou  hadst  not 
received  it  ?  " 

How  well  John  the  Baptist  parried  the  tempta- 
tion to  jealousy,  when  he  said,  **  A  man  can  re- 
ceive nothing  unless  it  be  given  him  from 
heaven." 

123 


A  man  of  rest  .  .   .  he  shall  build. 

I  Chron.  xxii.  g,  lo. 

THE  men  of  rest  are  the  builders  of  the  most 
lasting  structures.  Solomon  builds  the  Temple, 
not  David.  Mary's  deed  of  anointing,  learned 
in  much  sitting  at  the  Lord's  feet,  fills  the  world 
with  its  aroma.  What  is  needed  to  make  us  men 
and  women  of  rest  ? 

Fir  sty  a  profound  conviction  that  God  is  work- 
ing.— Never  despair  of  the  world,  said  the  late 
Mrs.  Beecher  Stowe,  when  you  remember  what 
God  did  with  slavery:  the  best  possible  must 
happen.  This  serene  faith,  that  all  things  are 
working  out  for  the  best — the  best  to  God,  the 
best  to  man — and  that  God  is  at  the  heart  of  all, 
will  calm  and  still  us  in  the  most  feverish  days. 
There  is  a  strong  and  an  experienced  Hand  on 
the  helm. 

Nextf  an  entire  surrender  to  His  will. — God's 
will  is  certain  to  mean  the  destruction  of  the  flesh, 
in  whatever  form  He  finds  it ;  but  it  is  our  part 
to  yield  to  Him;  to  will  His  will  even  to  the 
cross;  to  follow  our  leader  Christ  in  this,  that 
He  yielded  Himself  without  reserve  to  execute 
His  Father's  purpose. 

Thirdly y  a  certain  knowledge  that  He  is  work- 
ing within  to  will  and  do  of  His  good  pleasure. — 
What  a  blessed  peace  possesses  us  when  once  we 
realize  that  we  are  not  called  on  to  originate  or 
initiate,  nor  to  make  great  far-reaching  plans  and 
try  to  execute  them  ;  but  just  to  believe  that  God 
is  prepared  to  work  through  our  hands,  speak  by 
our  life,  dwell  in  our  bodies,  and  fulfill  in  us  the 
good  purposes  of  His  will.  Be  full  of  God's  rest. 
Let  there  be  no  hurry,  precipitation,  or  fret ;  yield 
to  God's  hands,  that  He  may  mould  thee :  hush 
thy  quickly  throbbing  pulse  !  So  shalt  thou  build 
to  good  and  lasting  purpose. 
124 


Aaron  was  separated y  he  and  his  so7is  forever,  to 
minister  unto  Him.  i  Chron.  xxiii.  ij. 

THE  threefold  office  of  Aaron  suggests  our 
own.  When  we  are  prepared  to  follow  Jesus, 
through  the  rent  vail  of  His  flesh,  living  a  truly 
separated  life,  cleansing  ourselves  from  all  filth- 
iness  of  the  flesh  and  spirit,  we  also,  as  chosen 
priests,  may  exercise  these  functions  of  interces- 
sion, ministry,  and  blessing. 

Intercession. — The  fragrant  incense  stealing 
heavenward  is  a  beautiful  emblem  of  intercessory 
prayer.  Let  us  pray  more,  not  for  ourselves  so 
much  as  for  others.  This  is  the  sign  of  growth 
in  grace,  when  our  prayers  are  fragrant  with  the 
names  of  friend  and  foe,  and  mingled  with  the 
coals  of  the  golden  altar.  This  is  one  of  the  best 
gifts;  oh  to  exercise  it  more  persistently  ! 

Ministry. — We  have  many  things  to  engage  our 
attention,  but  they  may  be  unified  and  elevated 
by  the  one  threading  purpose  of  doing  all  for  the 
King.  Whether  we  eat,  or  drink,  or  whatever 
else  we  do,  we  may  do  all  to  His  glory.  Go  up 
and  down  in  the  Temple,  O  priests;  engage  in 
song,  or  sacrifice,  or  whatever  ministry  you  will : 
but  be  sure  that  all  is  of  Him,  and  through  Him, 
and  to  Him  forever. 

Blessing. — As  Aaron  came  forth  from  the  most 
Holy  Place  to  bless  the  congregation  that  waited 
for  him  ;  so  we  should  bless  that  little  portion  of 
the  world  in  which  our  lot  is  cast.  It  is  not 
enough  to  linger  in  soft  prayer  within  the  vail, 
we  must  come  forth  to  bless  mankind.  He  who 
is  nearest  God  is  closest  man.  Let  our  smile,  our 
touch,  our  words,  our  life,  be  the  greatest  bless- 
ing possible  to  those  who  know  us  best. 

Blessed  Spirit,  realize  through  each  of  us  this 
threefold  ideal,  and  separate  us  from  sin  and  the 
world,  that  we  may  be  prepared  for  it. 
125 


Princes  of  the  Sanctuary. 

I  Chron.  xxiv.  S  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  not  enough  for  us  to  be  in  the  sanctuary, 
we  must  be  princes  there.  There  must  be  the 
regal  mien,  which  is  a  meek  humility ;  the  regal 
largesse,  which  is  peace  and  blessing;  and  the 
regal  might,  which  is  self-restraint  and  self-con- 
trol. None  can  be  princes  of  the  sanctuary  with- 
out two  things :  they  ?nust  be  priests,  come  of  the 
priestly  line;  and  kings,  royal  not  because  of 
deeds  of  war,  but  because  they  are  related  to  the 
King  Himself,  and  are  regal  in  their  holy  and 
blameless  character. 

There  is  only  one  power  that  can  make  us 
princes  of  the  sanctuary — the  hand  of  the  exalted 
Lamb,  who  is  Himself  a  Priest-King,  after  the 
order  of  Melchizedek.  He  it  is  who  makes  us 
kings  and  priests  unto  God  his  Father. 

He  makes  us  priests. — This  is  your  position, 
not  now  to  offer  propitiatory  sacrifices,  but  to 
present  yourselves  a  living  sacrifice;  to  have  com- 
passion on  the  ignorant,  and  on  those  who  are  out 
of  the  way;  to  swing  the  censer  of  prayer  between 
the  living  and  the  dead,  so  that  plagues  may  be 
stayed  ;  and  to  plead  for  the  dark  sad  world,  with 
its  load  of  wretchedness,  need,  and  sin.  See  that 
your  garments  are  ever  white  and  stainless. 

Hemakes  us  kings. — We  reign  with  Him.  Sin 
and  Satan,  the  world  and  the  flesh,  are  beneath 
our  feet.  Ours  the  life  of  overcoming  power,  of 
unbroken  victory,  of  identification  with  Jesus  in 
the  glory  that  the  Father  has  given  Him.  They 
that  receive  the  abundance  of  His  grace  reign.  It 
is  there  for  us  all,  but  many  do  not  know,  or 
knowing  do  not  appreciate.  It  is  on  our  reception 
by  faith  of  God's  abundant  grace,  that  we  reign 
in  this  life,  and  the  next. 

126 


All  these  were  under  the  hands  of  their  father 
for  song.  I  Chron.  xxv.  5,  b. 

W  HAT  a  glorious  family  was  here  !  The  house- 
hold was  a  band  of  choristers  !  From  morning 
to  night  their  home  must  have  been  full  of  holy 
song  and  psalm,  or  talk  about  the  order  of  the 
Temple  service,  in  which  they  were  all  so  deeply 
interested.  Surely  no  jarring  note,  no  unholy  dis- 
cord, would  live  in  such  an  atmosphere  1  The  com- 
mon occupation  and  worship  must  have  welded 
the  brothers  and  sisters  into  the  tenderest  union. 

How  one  would  like  to  have  seen  Heman  com- 
ing into  the  Temple  with  his  children  !  It  was 
largely  owing  to  him  and  their  mother  that  they 
were  what  they  were.  We  shall  read  the  Psalms 
ascribed  to  him  with  more  interest,  now  we  know 
of  the  holy  family  life  out  of  which  they  ema- 
nated. What  interest  there  would  be  when  the 
father  had  produced  a  new  psalm  to  know  what 
music  would  suit  it  best  I 

Parents !  Be  sure  that  you  look  on  your  chil- 
dren, as  these  Hebrews  did  on  theirs,  as  the  gifts 
of  God  ;  and  remember  that  if  He  gives  you 
many  mouths  to  feed,  He  will  send  the  where- 
withal to  feed  them.  Be  careful  also  that  your 
own  hearts  and  lives  are  full  of  praise  and  prayer; 
what  you  are,  the  children  will  become.  Would 
that  mothers  especially  realized  how  they  transmit 
their  characters.  But  remember  that  you  must  be 
obeyed  in  the  home.  Heman's  children  were 
*♦  under  the  hands  of  their  father."  Young  peo- 
ple must  not  get  the  upper  hand. 

But  if  you  would  rule  well,  you  must  obey. 
Asaph,  Heman,  and  Jeduthun  were  under  the 
king  (6,  R.  v.).  The  man  who  is  himself  under 
authority,  can  say,  Go,  come,  do  this  or  that, 
with  the  calm  assurance  of  being  obeyed. 


127 


For  the  courses  of  the  doorkeepers. 

I  Chron.  xxvi.  i  (K.  v.). 

MIGHTY  men  of  valor  were  needed  for  this, 
just  as  sweet  singers  were  for  the  service  of  song. 
Entrance  to  the  House  of  God  was  restricted  to  a 
privileged  few.  Gentiles  were  excluded  from 
certain  courts,  and  women  from  another.  It  was 
incumbent  also  to  look  out  for  those  who,  like 
the  publican  in  the  Lord's  parable,  might  shrink 
from  intruding,  and  encourage  them  to  enter. 
Doorkeepers  had  to  combine  many  qualities, 
which  would  be  of  the  greatest  service  if  they 
could  be  repeated  in  each  church  and  chapel  of 
our  great  cities,  for  welcoming  old  and  young. 

But  chiefly  we  are  concerned  with  the  temple 
of  the  heart.  We  surely  need  the  doorkeeper 
there,  for  in  the  history  of  the  inner  life  there 
is  so  much  going  and  coming;  such  troops  of 
thoughts  pour  into  the  shrine  of  the  soul,  and 
pour  out.  And  often,  in  the  crowd,  disloyal  and 
evil  thoughts  intrude,  which,  before  we  know  it, 
introduce  a  sense  of  distance  and  alienation  from 
God,  as  though  a  cloud  had  veiled  the  shining 
of  the  Shekinah.  Whenever  the  sky  is  overcast 
within,  we  should  question  whether  some  traitor, 
some  excommunicate,  has  entered.  Our  native 
wit  is  not  quick  enough  to  detect,  and  our 
strength  not  mighty  enough  to  withstand,  the 
entrance  of  all  these  evil  things.  Hence  the 
necessity  not  only  to  live  in  the  Spirit,  but  to 
walk  in  the  Spirit,  /.  e.,  to  submit  everything  to 
the  Spirit's  scrutiny. 

It  is  necessary  also  that  strict  supervision  should 
be  exercised  over  those  who  unite  with  the  visible 
Church,  lest  her  holiness  become  diluted,  and 
her  fences  broken  down.  Nothing  is  more  im- 
portant than  the  function  of  doorkceping  for  the 
Church's  purity. 


128 


All  these  were  the  rulers  of  the  substance  which 
was  King  David  *s.  i  Chron.  xxvii.  31. 

THERE  was  great  variety  in  office  and  gift. 
He  who  cared  for  the  work  of  the  field  could  not 
have  known  how  to  care  for  the  flocks.  The 
overseer  of  olive-yard  and  vineyard  would  have 
been  a  poor  hand  with  the  camels  and  asses. 
One  sort  of  talent  was  needed  for  the  herds,  and 
another  for  the  wine  cellars  ;  and  yet  there  was 
unity  in  the  common  service  of  the  king.  We 
are  reminded  of  the  words  of  the  Apostle,  de- 
scribing the  variety  in  unity  which  must  obtain 
in  every  healthy  church  :  "  There  are  diversities 
of  gifts,  but  the  same  Spirit;  diversities  of  minis- 
trations, and  the  same  Lord  ;  diversities  of  oper- 
ations, but  the  same  God." 

Each  of  these  different  men  had  his  distinct 
sphere  for  which  he  was  doubtless  specially  qual- 
ified ;  and  it  was  his  duty — not  to  be  jealous  of 
others,  nor  eager  to  imitate  them,  but — to  be 
faithful  in  his  own  province.  How  much  hap- 
pier we  should  all  be  if  we  recognized  our  spe- 
cific work  in  God's  house,  and  kept  to  it,  being 
content  to  serve  the  King  as  He  has  seen  fit  to 
determine,  rendering  Him  the  produce  in  due 
season. 

How  great  an  error  it  would  have  been  had 
any  of  these  begun  to  account  the  produce  of  cat- 
tle or  ground  as  his  own.  He  had  nothing  that 
he  had  not  received,  and  whatever  he  controlled 
had  been  entrusted  to  his  care  for  the  emolument 
and  advantage  of  his  sovereign.  Yet,  how  few  of 
us  realize  that  we  are  put  in  business  with  God's 
capital,  for  God's  use.  We  take  all  and  give 
Him  a  percentage,  instead  of  using  all  for  Him 
and  keeping  a  percentage  for  ourselves.  In  this 
we  rob  God,  and  greatly  err.  We  must  acknowl- 
edge that  both  we  and  all  we  possess  belong  to 
Him. 

129 


The  Lord  God,  even  7ny   God,  .  .  .  will  not  fail 
Thee,  nor  forsake  Thee.  i  Chron.  xxviU.  20. 

IT  is  very  comforting  to  take  these  words  to 
our  hearts ;  especially  when  we  connect  them 
with  the  foregoing  ones  about  the  pattern,  and 
apply  the  whole  passage  to  the  temple-building 
of  our  own  lives.  For  each  of  us,  too,  there  is  a 
pattern,  an  ideal,  a  design,  based  on  the  possi- 
bilities which  God  sees  to  be  within  our  reach ; 
for  each,  too,  there  is  abundance  of  stored  provi- 
sion ;  but  we  are  not  always  strong  to  do.  In 
Jesus  there  is  the  complete  ideal  of  human  life ; 
of  the  Child  at  Nazareth ;  of  the  Servant  in  the 
workshop ;  of  the  Lover  in  His  affection  for  His 
church ;  of  the  Friend,  the  Sufferer,  the  Patriot, 
the  Saviour.     Go  forth  and  imitate  Him  ! 

Sometimes  our  heart  and  flesh  fail  us  in  the 
mid-passage  of  life.  Once  the  energy  and  vigor 
of  youth  promised  to  sustain  and  carry  us  to  the 
end  of  life,  without  fear  or  failure  ;  but  these  die 
down,  and  we  wonder  how  the  remainder  of  the 
life-plan  can  be  fulfilled.  And  the  one  sufficient 
answer  is — God.  He  who  helped  our  fathers  to 
the  very  end  will  help  us :  He  who  did  not  fail 
or  forsake  them,  will  never  leave  nor  forsake  us, 
until  all  the  work  of  life  which  He  has  planned, 
is  finished. 

It  is  probable  that  you  will  do  better  and  more 
enduring  work  henceforth  than  you  have  ever 
done  in  the  heyday  and  plenitude  of  youthful 
power,  if  you  let  God  work  all  through  you  to 
His  own  glory.  You  have  no  need  for  despond- 
ency, God  is  sufficient.  Oh  to  write  this  down 
on  the  tablets  of  the  heart— God  is;  God  is 
here  ;  God  is  all-sufficient ;  God  has  begun  and 
will  finish !  God  has  promised  that  He  wilh 
never  leave  nor  forsake  us ;  therefore  we  may 
boldly  say,  "God  is  my  helper,  I  will  not  fear 
what  man  shall  do  unto  me." 

130 


Our  days  on  the  earth  are  as  a  shadow,  and 
there  is  no  abiding.  i  Chron.  xxix.  i^  (r.  v.). 

ALL  life  has  been  compared  to  the  shadow  of 
a  smoke-wreath  ;  a  gesture  in  the  invisible  air  ;  a 
hieroglyph  traced  for  an  instant  on  the  sand,  and 
effaced  a  moment  after  by  a  breath  of  wind  ;  an 
air-bubble  vanishing  on  the  river.  Pilgrims  and 
sojourners,  as  were  all  our  fathers — such  is  the 
universal  confession.  But  even  such  may  do  a 
work  that  will  last  for  ages.  David  and  the  men 
of  his  time,  though  transitory  their  stay  on  our 
planet,  left  behind  them  a  standing  evidence  that 
they  had  been  here. 

Our  life  is  nothing,  but  it  may  be  Divine :  our 
days  are  as  a  breath,  but  they  may  affect  unborn 
generations :  the  tent  of  the  body  is  laid  aside, 
but  the  soul,  which  had  dwelt  in  it,  is  immortal 
in  its  touch  :  it  leaves  traces  of  its  own  immortal- 
ity behind  in  its  works,  and  it  lives  in  them.  In 
one  sense,  the  answer  to  the  ancient  prayer  is 
certain  :  *'  Establish  Thou  the  works  of  our  hands 
upon  us."  But  we  may  well  ask,  that  they  may 
be  such  that  we  shall  have  no  need  to  be  ashamed 
of. 

But,  for  this,  God  must  live  mightily  within 
us.  Abide  in  Me,  said  our  Lord.  ...  I  have 
appointed  you  that  ye  may  bring  forth  fruit,  and 
that  your  fruit  may  abide.  It  is  impossible  to  be 
in  true  union  with  Christ  without  feeling  the 
pulse  of  His  glorious  life;  and  where  it  enters 
like  a  tidal  river,  it  can  have  but  one  result — it 
must  manifest  itself  in  fruit.  It  is  only  in  pro- 
portion as  our  works  are  done  in  God,  and  God 
permeates  our  works,  that  they  become  sources 
of  enduring  blessing  to  coming  time.  Pilgrims 
though  we  be,  yet,  if  our  lives  are  spent  before 
Him,  we  may  build  temples  which  will  outlast 
the  wreck  of  matter. 


131 


I  will  give  thee  riches. 

2  Chron.  i.  ii^  12. 

SOLOMON  had  chosen  wisdom  and  knowl- 
edge that  he  might  honor  God  in  the  sight  of  his 
people.  And  in  return  God  honored  him,  and 
supplemented  his  choice  with  abundant  wealth. 

This  reminds  one  of  the  constant  teaching  of 
Jesus.  He  who  seeks  his  life  loses  it;  but  to 
lose  it  is  to  save  it  in  the  best  and  deepest  sense. 
Seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His  right- 
eousness, and  all  these  things  shall  be  added. 

The  conception  of  life  given  in  the  Bible  dif- 
fers by  a  whole  heaven  from  the  maxims  and 
practices  of  some  good  and  earnest  people.  Their 
notion  is  that  they  must  work  for  their  living, 
''keep  the  wolf  from  the  door,"  educate  their 
children  for  successfully  meeting  the  demands  of 
life.  These  objects  are  legitimate;  but  they 
were  never  meant  by  God  to  be  the  supreme  aim 
of  His  servants. 

His  object  in  our  creation,  redemption,  and 
regeneration,  was  that  we  might  serve  His  re- 
demptive purposes  in  the  world,  manifest  His 
character,  do  His  will,  win  souls  for  His  king- 
dom, administer  the  gifts  with  which  He  had  en- 
trusted us.  He  asks  us  to  rise  to  this  high  call- 
ing, and  give  our  whole  life  to  its  realization. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  all  else.  It  is  surely 
His  will  that  we  should  give  ourselves  to  useful 
trades,  and  fill  our  days  with  honest  toil ;  but  the 
main  purpose  should  ever  be  His  glory,  and  the 
exemplification  in  word  and  act  of  His  holy 
character.  If  we  ask  for  wisdom  to  do  this  well, 
we  shall  get  all  else  into  the  bargain.  God  is  a 
Being  of  perfect  honor  and  integrity.  And  if 
we  dare  to  make  His  service  the  main  end  of  life, 
we  shall  find  that  no  good  thing  will  fail.  He 
paves  the  streets  of  heaven  with  gold,  and  will 
not  withhold  it  from  His  children,  if  they  really 
need. 

132 


Because  the  Lord  loveth  His  people^  He   hath 
made  thee  King  over  them.    2  Chron.  it.  11  (r.  v.). 

HOW  truly  might  these  words  be  addressed  to 
our  blessed  Lord  1  Because  God  loved  the  world, 
He  gave  His  only-begotten  Son,  His  well-beloved, 
to  be  both  Prince  and  Saviour.  And  it  is  in 
knowing,  loving,  and  serving  Him  that  we  can 
realize  our  Supreme  blessedness. 

God's  loving  appointment  in  making  Jesus 
King  will  be  apparent  when  we  remember  how 
beautiful  He  is  in  His  personal  character ;  how 
closely  He  is  indentified  with  our  nature;  the 
might  of  His  arm  with  which  He  shields,  the  pa- 
tience wherewith  He  bears,  the  redemption  which 
He  has  wrought  out  and  brought  in  for  all  who 
believe.  What  could  God's  love  have  done 
better  to  approve  itself? 

Is  He  your  King?  Never  till  He  is  so,  will 
you  know  the  fullness  of  God's  love.  Those  who 
question  or  refuse  His  authority  are  always  in 
doubt  about  the  love  of  God  to  themselves  and  to 
the  world.  Those,  on  the  other  hand,  who  ac- 
knowledge His  claims,  and  crown  Him  as  King, 
suddenly  find  themselves  admitted  to  a  stand- 
point of  vision  in  which  doubts  and  disputations 
vanish,  and  the  secret  love  of  God  is  unfolded. 
Then  they  experience  the  wise  and  gentle  tend- 
ance of  the  Divine  love  in  its  most  entrancing 
characteristics.     All  is  love  where  Jesus  reigns. 

Nothing  is  more  indicative  of  God's  benevo- 
lence than  His  incessant  appeal  to  men  to  make 
Jesus  King.  The  demand  may  sometimes  in- 
volve severe  agony  and  suffering  for  those  who 
have  acknowledged  other  lords  too  long;  but 
God  persists  in  His  demand,  because  only  in 
serving  Jesus  can  the  human  heart  be  truly 
blessed. 

Go,  spread  your  trophies  at  His  feet, 
And  crown  Him  Lord  of  all ! 

133 


He  set  up  the  Pillars  before  the  Temple^   .  .  . 
Fachin  and  Boaz.  z  Chron.  Hi.  ly. 

THE  meaning  of  these  names  is  significant — 
He  shall  establish^  and  In  it  is  strength.  Each 
speaks  of  Him  of  whom  the  whole  temple  was  a 
type.  The  Lord  Jesus  has  established  the  work 
of  redemption  so  that  it  shall  never  be  removed; 
has  established  the  covenant,  ordered  in  all  things 
and  sure;  has  established  His  Church,  so  that 
the  gates  of  Hades  shall  not  prevail  against  it ; 
has  established  us  before  the  face  of  His  Father 
forevcrmore. 

There  is  much  in  the  New  Testament  about 
the  established  life.  It  is  the  desire  of  Peter  that 
the  scattered  saints  should  be  perfected,  stab- 
lished,  and  strengthened.  Paul  desires  to  see  the 
Roman  Christians,  that  he  may  impart  some 
spiritual  gift  so  that  they  may  be  established  :  he 
desires  that  the  Colossians  may  be  built  up  in 
Christ,  and  established  in  the  faith.  The  Epis- 
tle to  the  Hebrews  says  that  it  is  good  for  the 
heart  to  be  established  with  grace.  Let  us  ask 
that  Jesus  should  establish  us  in  the  Divine  life, 
rooting  and  grounding  us  in  love  and  faith,  so 
that  we  may  not  be  moved  away  from  the  Gospel, 
but  abound  therein  with  thanksgiving. 

It  is  only  as  we  abide  in  Jesus,  that  we  shall 
become  steadfast,  unmovable,  and  always  abound- 
ing. 

But  Christ  is  also  our  strong  Helper.  We  have 
no  strength  of  our  own ;  but  He  is  strong  ;  and 
in  Him  we  have  righteousness  and  strength.  Let 
us  make  our  refuge  in  Him,  as  the  conies,  who 
are  a  feeble  folk,  do  in  the  rock.  They  who 
abide  in  Jesus  derive  from  Him  fresh  supplies  of 
strength  for  each  moment's  need.  They  hear 
Him  saying,  **  Fear  not,  I  will  strengthen,  yea,  I 
will  help  thee";  and  they  learn  to  say  with 
Paul:  *'I  can  do  all  things  in  Christ  that 
strengtheneth  me." 

134 


The  Weight  could  not  be  found  out. 

2  Chron.  iv.  i8. 

THIS  was  as  it  should  be.  There  was  no  at- 
tempt to  keep  an  accurate  account  of  what  was 
given  to  the  service  of  God.  Even  Solomon's 
left  hand  did  not  know  what  his  right  hand  did. 
There  is  a  tendency  in  all  of  us  to  keep  a  strict 
account  of  what  we  give  to  God.  We  note  it 
down  in  our  ledgers;  we  rigorously  observe  the 
compact  into  which  we  have  entered  with  Him ; 
but  the  loftiest  form  of  devotion  overleaps  such 
calculation. 

This  liberality  of  the  people  reminds  us  of 
Mary's.  She  never  thought  of  the  great  cost  of 
the  precious  spikenard  which  she  broke  over  the 
Master's  person.  It  was  her  joy  to  give  her  all ; 
and  it  was  only  when  Judas  came  on  the  scene, 
that  we  learn  how  many  hundred  pence  it  was 
worth.  Thus  the  churches  of  Macedonia 
abounded  from  their  deep  poverty  unto  the  riches 
of  their  liberality,  so  that,  beyond  their  power, 
they  gave  to  the  cause  of  God. 

This  lavish  generosity  is  the  reflection  of  God's. 
There  is  no  measure  in  His  bounty.  It  is  heaped 
up,  pressed  down,  and  running  over.  He  never 
says,  I  will  give  up  to  a  certain  amount,  and  hold 
my  hand;  but  He  continues  to  give  like  the  over- 
flowings of  the  river  of  Egypt,  or  the  abundance 
of  the  spring  flowers,  which  cover  the  earth  as 
with  a  carpet.  Ah,  what  a  God  is  ours,  who 
loves  with  a  love  that  passeth  knowledge;  and 
when  He  gives,  exceeds  abundance,  however 
much  we  may  have  asked  or  thought.  How  truly 
may  we  say  with  the  psalmist,  "  Many,  O  Lord 
my  God,  are  the  wonderful  works  that  Thou  hast 
done,  and  Thy  thoughts  which  are  to  us-ward. 
They  cannot  be  reckoned  up  in  order  unto  Thee ; 
if  I  would  declare  and  speak  of  them,  they  are 
more  than  can  be  numbered." 

135 


The7i  the  House  iv as  filled  with  a  Cloud. 

2  Chron.  v.  ij. 

THIS  was  the  bright  Shekinah  cloud,  the 
symbol  of  the  Divine  Presence,  which  had  shone 
for  Moses  in  the  bush,  and  led  the  march  through 
the  desert.  It  was  as  though  God  had  found  a 
rest.  And  as  it  settled  upon  the  Most  Holy 
Place,  it  was  as  though  God  said.  This  is  my 
rest  forever ;  here  will  I  dwell,  for  I  have  desired 
it. 

The  Most  Holy  Place  is  the  symbol  of  our 
spirit,  meant  to  be  the  abiding-place  and  home  of 
God ;  and  shall  we  not  invite  the  blessed  She- 
kinah cloud  to  enter  thither,  addressing  it  in  the 
words  of  the  Psalm,  '*  Arise,  O  Lord,  into  thy 
resting-place,  Thou  and  the  ark  of  Thy  strength." 
Because  where  He  comes  to  abide  He  abun- 
dantly blesses  the  provision,  and  satisfies  the 
poor  with  bread  ;  He  clothes  His  priests  with  sal- 
vation, and  makes  His  saints  shout  aloud  for 
joy  :  He  erects  the  horn  of  strength  and  prepares 
the  lamp  of  light.  What  were  the  conditions  of 
this  incoming? — 

First y  Unity. — "  The  trumpeters  and  singers 
were  as  one^  We  must  put  away  strife,  divi- 
sions, variance,  and  evil-speaking.  Our  heart 
and  life  must  be  full  of  love.  When  the  disciples 
were  with  one  accord,  in  one  place,  the  Spirit 
descended. 

Second,  Heartiness. — "  They  lifted  up  their 
voice."  There  was  every  symptom  of  sincerity 
and  fervor. 

Thirdy  Thanksgiving  and  Praise. — "They 
praised  the  Lord,  saying,  He  is  good,  for  His 
mercy  endureth  forever."  No  refrain  occurs  of- 
tener  in  the  Bible  than  this.  It  is  an  exquisite 
expression  of  the  heart's  joy  and  rest  in  God. 
Let  us  sing  it  in  our  darkest,  as  well  as  gladdest 
hours,  full  of  trust,  thanksgiving,  and  praise. 
136 


When    Thou  teaches f  them   the  good  way  where- 
in they  should  walk.  2  Chron.  vi.  27  (r.  v.). 

THIS  sentence  is  exactly  parallel  with  the 
previous  one,  Whe7i  Thou  dost  afflict  them.  The 
obvious  meaning  then  is,  that  God  sometimes 
taught  Israel  the  good  way  wherein  they  should 
walk,  by  afflicting  them  and  shutting  up  the 
heaven  so  that  there  was  no  rain.  This  was  no- 
tably the  case  in  the  days  of  Elijah.  Possibly, 
these  words  were  in  his  heart,  when  he  prayed 
earnestly  that  it  might  not  rain,  and  it  rained 
not  for  the  space  of  three  years  and  six  months. 
Perhaps  the  prophet  felt  that  in  no  other  way 
could  the  people  be  brought  back  to  their  senses, 
and  reconciled  to  God,  except  by  learning  the 
futility  of  idol-worship.  So  he  asked  God  to 
teach  them  the  good  way,  by  shutting  up  the  bad 
one. 

What  a  lesson  for  ourselves  :  God  often  teaches 
us  by  bitter  disappointment  and  pain.  Our  fa- 
miliar paths  are  barricaded  by  thorns,  our  familiar 
hiding-places  are  blocked  up,  our  fountains  are 
poisoned,  and  all  our  pleasant  things  are  laid 
waste.  We  sometimes  suppose  that  this  is  in 
wrath;  may  it  not  rather  be  in  love?  God  is 
teaching  us  the  good  by  showing  us  the  evil :  is 
urging  us  to  tread  in  the  pleasant  ways  of  wisdom, 
by  allowing  us  to  prove  the  sharp  flints  and  thorns 
of  transgression.  Then  Ephraim  bemoans  him- 
self thus :  Thou  hast  chastised  me,  and  I  was 
chastised,  as  a  calf  unaccustomed  to  the  yoke  : 
turn  Thou  me,  and  I  shall  be  turned.  Then  the 
soul  cries,  I  will  go  and  return  to  my  first  hus- 
band, for  then  was  it  better  with  me  than  now. 

Sit  in  God's  school,  and  learn  from  His  Word 
and  Spirit,  that  He  may  not  be  compelled  to 
have  recourse  to  such  severe  measures  as  these. 
Why  shouldst  thou  be  afflicted,  when  He  is  will- 
ing to  instruct  and  teach  thee  in  the  way  that 
thou  shouldst  go ! 

137 


The  Fire  came  down  from  Heaven  ^  and  consumed 
the  Burnt-  Offering.  2  Chron.  vii.  i. 

IT  was  a  very  gracious  and  immediate  response 
to  the  prayer  of  King  and  people.  If  we  make 
room  for  God,  He  always  comes  and  fills.  If  we 
seek  Him,  He  is  instantly  with  us.  Directly  the 
soul  confesses,  it  is  forgiven ;  or  consecrates  it- 
self, it  is  accepted  ;  or  claims  deliverance  from 
the  power  of  sin,  it  is  cleansed.  Do  you  really 
want  the  Lord  to  come  to  you?  His  glory  has 
even  now  begun  to  shine  in  on  you,  to  grow  and 
enlighten  you  forevermore. 

The  fire  stands  for  the  Divine  Presence.  Oh 
to  have  always  a  consciousness  of  it !  Nothing 
would  so  soon  arrest  and  destroy  the  impurity 
and  evil  within  ;  as  sunshine  does  fungus-growth. 
We  are  told  that  the  fire  was  to  be  kept  burning 
on  the  altar :  it  was  never  to  go  out.  Thus,  we 
should  always  perpetuate  and  practice  the  pres- 
ence of  God,  feeding  the  fire  with  the  fuel  of 
prayer  and  meditation. 

Fire  also  stands  for  the  Divine  Purity.  As 
the  Plague  of  London  was  stamped  out  by  the 
Great  Fire  which  destroyed  the  nests  where  it 
had  bred ;  and  as  the  furnace  rids  the  ore  of 
dross — so  the  Holy  Spirit  in  thy  heart  and  mine 
is  a  guarantee  of  holiness  and  righteousness  all 
our  days. 

Fire  also  stands  for  Divine  Fellowship.  It 
consumed  that  part  of  the  offering  which  was 
placed  on  the  altar  ;  and  it  seemed  as  if  the  Di- 
vine nature  was  therefore  feeding  upon  the  sacri- 
fice, whilst  the  remainder  of  it  was  consumed  by 
the  offerer.  Thus,  also,  we  have  communion  with 
God,  as  we  eat  the  bread  and  drink  the  wine  in 
the  Lord's  supper.  We  feed  on  Christ  in  adora- 
tion, faith,  and  identification.  God  feeds  on 
the  completeness  of  Christ's  obedience,  and  the 
glory  of  His  character.  Thus  we  have  fellowship 
with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 
138 


The  places  are  holy,  whereunto  the  Ark  of  God 
hath  come.  2  Chron.  viii.  II. 

ON  tliis  account  Solomon  said,  My  wife  shall 
not  dwell  in  the  house  of  David,  king  of  Israel. 
What  a  fatal  admission  !  She  was  the  daughter 
of  Pharaoh,  and  therefore  it  was  no  doubt  consid- 
ered a  splendid  match  for  the  young  king ;  and 
yet  she  could  not  dwell  within  the  precincts  of 
the  old  city  of  David,  hallowed  by  the  presence 
of  the  Ark.  "  He  brought  her  out  of  the  city  of 
David,  into  the  house  that  he  had  built  for  her." 
So  from  the  very  outset  there  was  division  of  in- 
terests, making  way  no  doubt  for  much  of  the 
waywardness  of  Solomon's  character  in  after  life, 
so  that  we  are  told  *'  his  wives  turned  away  his 
heart." 

One  of  the  first  questions  that  youth  and 
maiden  should  put  in  considering  the  question 
of  marriage  is,  whether  there  can  be  perfect 
sympathy  in  the  best  and  deepest  things;  for 
how  can  two  walk  together  except  they  be  agreed  ? 

The  blessedness  of  the  marriage  tie  depends  on 
whether  the  twain  are  one  in  spirit,  in  a  common 
love  for  Christ,  and  endeavor  for  His  glory. 
Nothing  is  more  terrible  than  when  either  admits 
in  the  secrecy  of  the  heart,  concerning  the  other, 
My  husband  or  my  wife  cannot  accompany  me 
into  the  holy  places  where  I  was  reared,  and  in 
which  my  best  life  finds  its  home. 

All  friendship  should  follow  the  same  law. 
We  must  abide  together  in  the  secret  place  of  the 
Most  High,  if  our  friends  and  we  are  to  be 
friends  indeed.  All  places  may  be  made  holy 
where  the  Ark  of  God's  covenant  comes.  Where 
it  goes,  love  may  safely  follow;  but  woe  to  the 
love  that  cannot !  Its  inability  proves  its  lack  of 
elements  of  permanence  and  perfect  satisfaction. 


139 


She  came  to  probe  Solomon  with  hard  questions. 

2  Chron.  ix.  i. 

SHE  came  to  the  right  place^  for  Solomon 
passed  all  the  kings  of  the  earth  in  wisdom;  and 
all  the  kings  of  the  earth  sought  his  presence,  to 
hear  the  wisdom  that  God  had  put  into  his  heart. 
Bring  your  hard  questions  to  Christ ;  He  is 
greater  than  Solomon.  To  Him  is  given  riches 
and  wisdom,  and  He  is  made  unto  us  wisdom. 
Before  the  touch  of  His  light  the  darkest  perplexi- 
ties must  resolve  themselves.  Though  He  speak 
no  audible  word,  the  hardest  questions  are  an- 
swered to  the  eyes  and  ears  of  such  as  wait  before 
Him. 

She  came  in  the  right  spirit^  bringing  him  gold 
and  spices  and  precious  stones.  Those  who 
would  get  from  Christ  must  be  willing  to  give  to 
Him.  There  must  be  a  reciprocity ;  and  if  we 
hope  to  receive  from  Him  from  those  infinite 
stores  of  which  He  has  the  key,  we  must  count 
all  things  but  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowl- 
edge of  Christ,  and  must  be  prepared  to  count 
them  as  refuse  if  only  we  may  win  Him. 

She  came  to  a  right  conclusion.  He  answered 
all  her  questions,  and  she  returned  congratulating 
his  servants  and  blessing  God.  To  each  of  us, 
life  is  full  of  perplexities,  to  which  we  can  find 
no  solution,  however  much  we  strain  our  eyes 
and  weary  our  minds.  But  away  there  in  the 
light  Christ  stands,  with  the  perfect  plan  of 
every  maze  in  His  possession,  with  a  key  for  every 
riddle,  and  solution  for  every  enigma.  Wait  pa- 
tiently. Each  tough  knot  will  be  untied;  and 
there  will  come  into  our  hearts  a  radiancy,  a 
bounding  joy  like  that  with  which  the  Queen  of 
Sheba  turned  to  go  to  her  own  home.  The  half 
of  the  greatness  of  thy  wisdom,  O  Word  of  God, 
can  never  be  told  ! 


140 


For  it  was  brought  about  of  God. 

2  Chron.  x.  ij  (r,  v.). 

THIS  revolt  must  have  seemed  to  be  the  result 
of  an  unfortunate  mistake  on  the  part  of  the  ill- 
advised  young  king.  He  and  the  young  men 
that  gathered  around  him  thought  that  the  best 
way  of  ruling  people  was  by  showing  a  strong 
hand,  and  adopting  a  policy  of  non-compliance 
with  their  very  natural  requests.  But  as  the  re- 
sult, the  Ten  Tribes,  never  very  closely  bound  to 
David's  line,  sprang  away  from  it,  leaving,  as 
Ahijah  had  foretold,  only  two  out  of  the  twelve 
pieces  of  the  rent  garment.  Here,  however,  a 
deeper  explanation  is  given:  "It  was  brought 
about  of  God."  It  seemed  to  be  altogether  a 
piece  of  human  folly  and  passion  ;  but  now  we 
are  suddenly  brought  into  the  presence  of  God, 
and  told  that  beneath  the  plottingsand  plannings 
of  man  He  was  carrying  out  His  eternal  purpose. 

To  detect  this  Divine  purpose  lying  beneath 
the  cross-currents  of  human  affairs  is  the  preroga- 
tive of  the  saints.  In  a  recent  book,  the  Duke  of 
Argyll  has  argued  from  the  purpose-iveness  of  na- 
ture. With  as  much  certainty  we  may  apply  that 
word  to  history,  politics,  the  course  of  current 
events.  All  is  under  law.  God  doeth  according 
to  His  will  among  the  armies  of  heaven  and  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  "  And  we  know  that  all 
things  work  together  for  good  to  them  that  love 
God,  to  them  who  are  the  called  according  to  His 
purpose."  Without  contravening  the  action  of 
man's  free  choice  He  carries  out  His  great  designs 
and  works  His  sovereign  will.  Let  us  trust  in 
this  Almighty  Providence,  which  underlies  all 
events  and  catastrophes,  and  pursues  its  benefi- 
cent objects  undeterred  by  our  sins.  He  makes 
the  wrath  of  man  to  praise  Him,  and  weaves  the 
malignant  work  of  Satan  into  His  plans. 


141 


Such  as  set  their  hearts  to  seek  the  Lord  God  of 
Israel  came  to  Jerusalem.  2  Chron.  xi.  16. 

All  the  tribes  were  represented  in  those  great 
convocations  around  the  Temple  and  Ark  of  God. 
The  territory  of  the  northern  tribes  was  now 
under  Jeroboam;  the  gulf  between  the  two  king- 
doms was  marked  and  distinct.  Everything  was 
done  by  the  son  of  Nebat  to  make  it  difficult  for 
his  people  to  cross  the  frontier ;  but  their  spirit- 
ual affinities  prevailed.  They  were  stronger  than 
the  antipathy  which  Rehoboam's  haughty  be- 
havior had  excited ;  stronger  than  the  fear  of  in- 
curring odium  with  their  own  king ;  stronger 
than  the  inconvenience  of  the  long  journey.  In 
spite  of  everything,  those  whose  hearts  were  set 
on  seeking  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  came  to  Jeru- 
salem to  sacrifice  to  the  Lord  God  of  their 
fathers. 

Does  not  this  foreshadow  the  unity  of  the 
Church  of  Christ?  Territorial  distinctions,  the 
risk  of  incurring  disfavor,  the  necessity  of  mak- 
ing a  sacrifice,  these  things  are  as  nothing  com- 
pared with  the  attraction  of  our  common  Lord. 
Amid  wide  disunion  and  disparity  of  every  kind, 
there  is  one  mighty  bond  which  draws  believers 
of  every  nation,  kindred,  tribe,  and  people  to- 
gether. Each  morning  we  all  ascend  the  steps  of 
the  same  temple  of  prayer  ;  each  evening  we  join 
in  one  great  hymn  of  praise ;  at  each  Lord's 
Supper  we  sit  at  the  same  table.  Eating  of  one 
Bread,  we  know  that  we  are  one  Loaf;  drinking 
of  one  Cup,  we  profess  our  indebtedness  to  the 
same  precious  Blood  for  our  hope  and  ground  of 
acceptance  (i  Cor.  x.  17,  R.  v.,  marg.). 

We  must  set  our  hearts,  if  we  desire  to  execute 
any  great  purpose  in  our  life  :  otherwise  we  shall 
be  daunted  and  checkmated  by  the  strong  opposi- 
tion of  men  and  things. 


142 


He  did  evil,  because  he  prepared  not  his  heart  to 
seek  the  Lord.  z  Chron.  xU.  14. 

IN  the  margin  of  the  A.  V.  for  prepared  the 
alternative  xtwdi^x'mg  fixed  is  suggested.  The  R. 
V.  gives  set,  "he  set  not  his  heart  to  seek  the 
Lord."  This  is  very  true  of  all  of  us.  Before 
temptation  comes  we  almost  always  have  a  warn- 
ing of  some  kind.  The  barometer  falls;  the  sea 
birds  come  in  to  the  shore  ;  the  leaves  of  the 
trees  are  bent  back.  The  Spirit  of  God  contrives 
to  give  the  soul  some  signal  that  at  any  moment 
it  may  expect  an  assault.  The  question  always  is 
at  such  a  time,  Is  the  heart  set  on  seeking  and 
doing  the  will  of  God  ?  If  it  be,  if  without  re- 
serve the  whole  nature  is  determined  to  do  God's 
will  at  any  cost,  there  is  no  fear  of  the  enemy  ef- 
fecting an  entrance.  All  day  the  thunder  of  its 
artillery  may  boom  around,  but  from  every  side 
the  foe  will  be  repelled,  until  presently  the  storm 
will  roll  far  down  the  wind. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  any  vacillation  ; 
if,  whilst  ostensibly  avowing  our  determination  to 
do  the  right  thing,  we  secretly  whisper  in  our 
deepest  consciousness  that  we  intend  to  go  as  far 
as  we  can  in  self-indulgence,  and  would  be 
almost  thankful  if  circumstances  compelled  us  to 
yield — we  are  almost  certain  to  fall.  The  will 
must  be  whole  in  its  resolves  ;  the  heart  must  be 
consecrated  in  its  most  secret  determinations;  no 
traitor  may  be  harbored,  who  may  open  the 
postern  gate.  Oh  to  say  with  David,  **  My  heart 
is  fixed,  O  God,  my  heart  is  fixed"  !  But  this 
steadfastness  is  one  of  those  preparations  of  the 
heart  which  can  only  be  obtained  through  the 
gracious  indwelling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Hence 
we  pray  with  David,  **  Renew  a  steadfast  spirit 
within  me."  And  while  we  pray,  we  must  never 
forget  our  Lord's  command  to  watch  also. 


143 


Beholdy  the  battle  ivas  before  and  behi?id. 

2  Chron.  xiii.  14. 

ABIJAH'S  address  is  full  of  true  and  noble 
utterances,  especially  when  he  describes  God  as 
being  the  Captain  of  the  Host ;  and  this  spirit 
soon  permeated  his  people,  so  that  when  the  bat- 
tle was  sorest,  and  they  were  hemmed  in  by  their 
foes,  it  was  natural  for  them  to  turn  to  the  Lord, 
and  for  the  priests  to  give  a  blast  on  the  trumpets, 
like  that  with  which  the  new  moon  and  the 
solemn  feasts  were  inaugurated. 

The  point  for  us  to  remember  is  that  our  ene- 
mies may  shut  us  in  on  all  sides,  preventing  re- 
inforcements from  north,  south,  east,  and  west; 
but  no  earthly  power  can  ever  shut  off  God  from 
above  us.  The  way  upward  is  always  kept  clear  ; 
the  ladder  which  links  the  beleaguered  soul  with 
God  and  heaven  can  never  be  blocked,  except  by 
transgression  and  sin. 

The  Priest  is  always  with  thee,  child  of  God. 
His  help  is  always  at  hand.  Neither  death,  nor 
life,  nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  principalities, 
nor  powers,  can  ever  separate  thee  from  the 
down-coming  of  God's  love. 

The  battle  is  often  before  and  behind.  From 
behind  come  memories  of  past  failure,  the  conse- 
quences of  mistakes,  the  misunderstandings  which 
have  alienated  us  from  others,  and  made  it  diffi- 
cult for  us  to  live  as  we  would ;  on  the  other 
hand  perplexities  and  anxieties  seem  to  bar  our 
future  path.  But  when  the  battle  is  before  and 
behind,  remember  that  God  besets  His  people  be- 
hind and  before,  and  covers  them  with  His  hand. 
The  invisible  film  of  His  protection  makes  the 
soul  invulnerable.  The  life  that  is  hid  with 
Christ  in  God  is  beyond  the  reach  of  harm. 


144 


Lord,  there  is  none  beside  Thee  to  help. 

2  Chron.  xiv.  ii  (r.  v.). 
REMIND  God  of  His  entire  responsibility. — 
"  There  is  none  beside  Thee  to  help."  The  odds 
against  Asa  were  enormous.  There  was  a  million 
of  men  in  arms  against  him,  beside  three  hundred 
chariots.  It  seemed  impossible  to  hold  his  own 
against  that  vast  multitude.  There  were  no  allies 
who  would  come  to  his  help :  his  only  hope 
therefore  was  in  God.  There  was  none  beside  to 
help.  It  may  be  that  your  difficulties  have  been 
allowed  to  come  to  so  alarming  a  pitch,  that  you 
may  be  compelled  to  renounce  all  creature  aid,  to 
which  in  lesser  trials  you  have  had  recourse,  and 
cast  yourself  back  on  your  Almighty  Friend. 

Put  God  between  yourself  and  the  foe. — To 
Asa's  faith,  Jehovah  seemed  to  stand  between  the 
might  of  Zerah  and  himself,  as  one  who  had  no 
strength.  Nor  was  he  mistaken.  We  are  told 
that  the  Ethiopians  were  destroyed  before  the 
Lord  and  before  His  host,  as  though  celestial 
combatants  flung  themselves  against  the  foe  in 
Israel's  behalf,  and  put  the  large  host  to  rout,  so 
that  Israel  had  only  to  follow  up  and  gather  the 
spoil.  Our  God  is  Jehovah  of  Hosts,  who  can 
summon  unexpected  reinforcements  at  any  mo- 
ment to  the  aid  of  His  people.  Believe  that  He 
is  there  between  you  and  your  difficulty,  and 
what  baffles  you  will  flee  before  Him,  as  clouds 
before  the  gale. 

Identify  your  cause  with  His. — **In  Thy 
name  are  we  come.  .  .  .  Let  not  man  prevail 
against  Thee."  It  is  a  great  matter  when  a  small 
State  is  so  identified  with  a  strong  European 
power,  as  that  an  insult  to  one  of  its  officials  is 
deemed  a  casus  belli  by  the  more  powerful  Gov- 
ernment ;  and  whenever  we  are  so  delivered  from 
selfish  aims,  as  to  be  able  to  show  that  our  cause 
and  God's  are  one,  we  are  invincible. 
145 


They  entered  into  a  covenant  to  seek  the  Lord  God 
of  their  fathers.  2  Chron.  xv.  12. 

WE  hear  but  little  talk  in  the  present  day  of 
the  covenant,  the  mention  of  which  was  dear  to 
God's  people  of  olden  time.  There  is  this  differ- 
ence between  //  and  the  covenants  which  we 
make  with  God.  That  is  permanent,  these 
evanescent.  That  is  founded  upon  the  oath  and 
promise  of  God ;  these  on  the  resolutions  and 
endeavors  of  man.  That  is  full  of  promises  of 
what  God  will  be  and  do;  these  recount  what 
we  are  prepared  to  sacrifice  and  suffer.  And 
though  we  sign  them  with  blood  drawn  from  our 
veins,  they  will  disappoint  and  fail. 

Do  not  think  too  much  of  entering  into  and 
keeping  a  covenant  with  God  ;  but  remember  that 
the  Lord  Jesus,  on  our  behalf,  has  entered  into 
covenant  relation  with  the  Father,  and  the  Father 
with  us  in  Him.  This  is  the  new  covenant.  It 
is  drawn  out  at  length  in  Hebrews  viii.  Very 
little  is  said  about  our  side,  but  it  is  full  to  over- 
flowing of  God's.  Nothing  is  said  of  our  fidel- 
ity to  our  obligations,  because  man  has  been  too 
often  weighed  in  the  balances  and  found  want- 
ing ;  and  because  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  our 
representative,  has  already  fulfilled  all  the  con- 
ditions of  obedience  and  devotion  on  which  its 
provisions  depend.  He  has  also  graciously  un- 
dertaken to  realize  those  conditions  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  in  us. 

Every  time  we  put  to  our  lips  the  cup  of  the 
new  covenant,  we  humbly  remind  God  of  all  He 
has  promised,  and  ask  Him  to  do  as  He  has  said. 
At  the  same  time  we  may  confidently  ask  the 
great  Surety  of  the  covenant  to  accomplish  in  us 
such  a  mind  as  may  love  and  keep  our  Father's 
law.  And  what  He  did  for  our  fathers,  who  were 
naturally  just  such  as  we  are,  He  will  certainly 
do  for  us. 

146 


To  shoiv  Himself  strong  in  the  behalf  of  them 
whose  heart  is  perfect  toward  Him. 

2  Chron.  xvi.  g. 

THE  emphasis  is  clearly  on  the  word  perfect. 
That  was  the  point  between  Hanani  the  seer,  and 
Asa  the  king.  Asa's  mistake  and  sin  lay  in  his 
resorting  to  Benhadad,  king  of  Syria,  as  an  ally 
against  Baasha.  Evidently  he  did  not  perfectly 
trust  the  delivering  power  of  God;  and  in  this 
failure  of  his  faith,  he  forfeited  the  all-sufficient 
help  which  would  have  more  than  availed.  As 
the  seer  said  very  truly,  simple  trust  in  God  had 
brought  deliverance  from  the  Ethiopians  and 
Lubim,  though  they  were  a  much  huger  host  than 
Baasha's;  and  the  same  attitude  in  respect  of 
Baasha  would  have  secured  a  like  result.  God 
was  only  awaiting  the  appeal  of  Asa's  faith,  to 
show  Himself  strong.  What  a  mistake  to  send 
to  Syria ! 

Now,  dear  reader,  this  is  very  pertinent  for 
your  life  and  mine.  We  often  complain  that  we 
are  bereft  of  help,  and  send  off  for  Benhadad. 
And  all  the  while  the  eyes  of  the  Lord  are  look- 
ing pitifully  and  longingly  at  us.  Nothing  would 
give  Him  greater  pleasure  tlian  to  show  Himself 
strong  on  our  behalf.  This,  however,  He  cannot 
do  until  renouncing  all  other  confidants  and  help- 
ers, our  heart  is  perfect  in  the  simplicity  and 
frankness  of  its  faith.  What  an  exquisite  thought 
is  suggested  by  the  allusion  to  the  eyes  of  the 
Lord  running  to  and  fro  throughout  the  whole 
earth.  At  a  glance  He  takes  in  our  position; 
not  a  sorrow,  trial,  or  temptation  visits  us  with- 
out exciting  His  notice  and  loving  sympathy.  In 
all  the  whole  wide  earth  there  is  not  one  spot  so 
lonely,  one  heart  so  darkened,  as  to  escape  those 
eyes.  Oh  for  tlie  perfect  confidence  which  will 
allow  Him  to  act !  It  is  for  lack  of  this  that  we 
remain  unhelped,  and  spend  our  days  in  the 
midst  of  wars  and  tumults. 
147 


His  heart  was  lifted  up  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 

2  Chron.  xvii.  6. 

SURSUM  corda  !  Lift  up  your  hearts  !  How 
beautiful  is  this  ejaculation  in  the  Communion 
Service  of  the  Church  of  England,  and  the  re- 
sponse, "We  lift  them  up  unto  the  Lord."  I 
never  hear  it  without  the  thrill  of  a  holy  impulse 
passing  through  me.  It  is  possible,  and  it  is  meet 
and  right,  to  lift  up  our  hearts  from  the  sordid 
cases  and  pressing  responsibilities  of  daily  life, 
into  the  calm,  serene  presence  of  God  our  Father. 

Lift  up  your  heart  to  God,  as  a  child  its  face  to 
be  kissed.  Lift  it  up  free  from  mistrust  and  sin- 
ful stain,  and  unkind  feeling  toward  any.  Lift 
it  up  in  holy  joy  and  inspiration.  Lift  it  up  as  a 
censer  filled  with  the  hot  coals,  from  which  sweet 
fragrance  exhales.  And  God  will  bend  down  to 
lift  it  higher,  and  fill  it  with  His  peace  and  joy 
and  purity. 

In  hours  of  depression  look  up,  be  lifted.  Sur- 
su7n  corda  !  When  the  foe  is  pressing  you  most 
severely,  look  up,  your  redemption  draweth  nigh. 
When  the  river  has  to  be  crossed,  when  the  last 
farewell  must  be  said,  when  the  flesh  fails,  let 
your  mind  and  heart  thither  ascend,  and  there 
continually  dwell  where  Jesus  has  entered  as  your 
Forerunner. 

If  you  would  lift  up  your  heart,  you  must  be  in 
the  ways  of  the  Lord,  as  the  good  Jehoshaphat. 
You  must  seek  the  Lord  God,  and  walk  in  His 
commandments.  You  must  take  away  the  high 
places  and  groves  of  idolatry  and  impurity.  Be- 
ware of  the  world's  birdlime  !  Shake  yourself 
from  the  bands  and  bonds  that  would  detain  you. 
Oh,  heart  of  mine,  why  is  thy  flight  so  low? 
Lift  thyself  up  and  sit  down  with  Christ  in  the 
heavenly  places  !  "  Unto  Thee,  O  Lord,  do  I 
lift  up  my  soul.  Let  not  mine  enemies  triumph 
over  me !  " 

148 


/  hate  him  ;  for  he  never  prophesied  good  unto 
me,  but  ahvays  evil.  2  Chron.  xviii.  7. 

THIS  was  a  very  naive  confession.  Of  course, 
Micaiah  could  not  speak  good  of  Ahab,  whose 
life  was  diametrically  opposed  to  all  that  was 
God-like  and  holy.  Micaiah  had  no  animosity 
toward  the  king  of  Israel;  it  was  not  a  personal 
matter  with  him.  He  simply  read  from  the  page 
of  the  future  as  God  opened  it  to  his  eyes,  and  in 
which  the  out-working  of  the  king's  evil  life  was 
disclosed  in  gloomy  characters.  It  was  as  ab- 
surd to  hate  him  because  he  read  such  dark  les- 
sons from  the  inevitable  future,  as  for  a  house- 
holder to  shoot  his  dog,  that  bays  all  night,  to 
warn  his  master  against  the  burglar  engaged  in 
rifling  his  home. 

The  Bible,  the  pastor,  the  whole  Church  of 
God,  are  hated  by  worldlings  for  the  same  rea- 
son, because  they  cannot  speak  hopefully  of  their 
future.  It  is  as  though  a  card -playing  crew  were 
to  hate  the  watchman  who  told  them  that  the 
course  of  their  vessel  was  straight  for  the  surf  and 
rocks  of  fhe  shore.  If  men  will  persist  in  violat- 
ing God's  law,  in  breaking  through  the  hedge  of 
thorns,  and  in  pursuing  their  own  wild  ways, 
they  cannot  possibly  expect  the  blessedness  of 
the  Beatitudes.  However,  their  hatred  against 
those  who  warn  them  is  really  directed  toward 
God.  They  are  indignant  that  they  cannot  have 
their  way ;  their  proud  spirit  would  like  to  over- 
turn the  very  order  of  the  universe  rather  than 
that  it  should  be  thwarted.  They  cannot  endure 
the  contrast  between  God's  children  and  them- 
selves. Do  not  be  surprised  if  the  world  hate 
you.  It  shows  that  you  are  no  more  of  the  world 
than  your  Master  was.  Jesus  said  :  "If  they  have 
persecuted  Me,  they  will  also  persecute  you ;  if 
they  have  kept  My  saying,  they  will  keep  yours 
also." 

149 


Shouldest  thou   help  the  ungodly y  and  love  them 
that  hate  the  Lord  ?  2  Chron.  xix.  2. 

THIS  looks  back  to  xviii.  i,  where  we  learn  that 
Jehoshaphat,  though  he  had  riches  and  honor  in 
abundance,  joined  affinity  with  Ahab.  Riches 
and  abundance  are  dangerous  things.  They 
usually  weaken  our  character,  and  incline  us  to 
worldly  alliances  ;  and  it  was  to  their  subtle  and 
pernicious  influences  that  Jehoshaphat  fell  a  vic- 
tim. Ah  !  what  a  fall  it  was  to  hear  him  saying, 
**  I  am  as  thou  art,  and  my  people  as  thy  peo- 
ple." Well  might  Jehu  take  up  the  role  which 
his  father  had  filled  before  Asa,  and  protest.  But 
let  us  seriously  question  whether,  though  there 
are  good  things  found  in  us,  we  may  not  be  fall- 
ing into  the  same  mistake,  and  sin.  Are  there 
not  ways  in  which  we  say  to  men  of  the  world, 
with  whom  we  mix,  "  I  am  as  thou  art "  ? 

There  is  a  great  tendency  in  the  present  day 
to  boast  in  the  closeness  with  which  we  can  ap- 
proach the  world  without  injury.  We  join  in  the 
social  life,  read  the  same  books,  go  to^  the  same 
amusements,  talk  of  the  same  themes;'  and  it  is 
almost  impossible  in  a  drawing-room  to  tell  the 
difference  between  the  Jehoshaphats  and  the 
Ahabs.  So  also,  in  our  methods  of  doing  good. 
The  real  difficulty  lies  away  back  in  our  want  of 
engagedness  with  Christ.  It  is  of  little  use  to 
find  fault  with  the  outward,  as  long  as  the  heart 
is  wayward.  Love  to  the  Lord  Jesus  is  our  only 
safeguard.  The  love  of  Christ  must  constrain 
us.  Personal  attachment  to  Christ  will  wean  us 
away  from  this  close  identification  with  the  world. 
But  if  we  persist  in  identifying  ourselves  with  the 
world,  which  God  has  doomed,  we  must  not  be 
surprised  to  find  that  wrath  is  on  us  from  the 
Lord  :  and  He  will  chasten  us  for  love's  sake. 


150 


He  appointed  singers  unto  the  Lord,  that  should 
praise  the  beauty  of  holiness.         2  Chron.  xx.  21. 

DOST  thou  praise  the  beauty  of  holiness  ?  Is 
holiness  beautiful  to  thee?  Art  thou  in  love  with 
it  as  it  is  presented  in  the  glorious  Lord  ?  Canst 
thou  turn  from  the  noise  and  anxiety  of  life's  bat- 
tle to  dwell  on  the  loveliness  of  God  and  of  the 
devout  life,  and  to  praise  Him  whose  mercy  en- 
dureth  forever?  It  is  a  rare  accomplishment, 
acquired  only  through  the  indwelling  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  In  each  of  us  there  should  be  the  priest- 
side  of  character  as  well  as  the  warrior  :  the  love 
for  what  is  beautiful  in  holiness  as  well  as  for  the 
strong  and  active  in  service. 

But  the  special  characteristics  of  this  battle  was 
that  the  good  king  put  the  singers  in  the  forefront 
of  the  army,  and  praised  for  a  victory  which  was 
only  assured  to  him  by  faith.  Yet  so  sure  was  he 
of  it,  that  he  could  praise  before  he  entered  into 
the  battle. 

There  is  much  to  help  us  here  in  our  daily 
combat  for  God  and  truth.  Let  us  fill  the  morn- 
ing hour  with  holy  song,  in  the  heart,  if  not  with 
the  voice ;  let  a  psalm  or  hymn  be  part  of  the 
daily  reading;  let  there  be  the  confidence  that 
God  is  going  to  bless,  which  cannot  restrain  its 
jubilant  expression.  So  in  all  prayer,  wait  on 
God  till  you  feel  that  you  can  praise  Him  for 
what  you  have  asked  Him  to  bestow. 

When  they  began  to  praise,  the  Lord  did  all 
the  rest.  Before  the  onset  of  His  Divine  rein- 
forcements the  enemy  fled.  His  people  had  but 
to  gather  spoil,  and  then  the  praise  which  had 
anticipated  the  battle  was  consummated  as  they 
returned,  in  the  valley  of  blessing. 

There's  a  song  in  the  valley  of  blessing  so  sweet, 
And  angels  would  fain  join  the  strain. 

As  with  rapturous  praises  we  bow  at  His  feet 
Crying,  "  Worthy  tlie  Lamb  that  was  slain !  " 

151 


The  same  time  also  did  Libnah  revolt  from  under 
his  hand.  2  Chron.  xxi.  jo. 

AS  long  as  the  kings  of  Judah  remained  true 
to  their  allegiance  to  God  they  were  able  to  keep 
in  subjection  the  surrounding  nations;  but  just 
so  soon  as  they  revolted  from  God  these  peoples 
revolted  from  them.  It  was  as  though  power 
descended  into  them  from  the  source  of  all 
power ;  and  when  the  link  between  themselves 
and  God  was  broken,  that  between  them  and 
their  subordinates  was  broken  also. 

This  applies  very  widely  :  To  our  passions. — 
If  they  master  you,  rebelling  against  and  revolt- 
ing from  your  hand,  it  is  because  there  is  some 
flaw  in  your  consecration,  and  you  have  forsaken 
to  some  extent  the  Lord  God. 

To  our  families. — When  the  heads  of  a  home 
are  in  perfect  unity  with  each  other  and  God, 
they  may  generally  expect  that  their  children  will 
grow  up  submissive  and  obedient.  Their  author- 
ity will  be  recognized  and  honored.  Revolt  in 
the  home  indicates  very  often  some  lapse  in  obe- 
dience and  loyalty  to  God. 

To  our  influence  over  men. — When  the  soul  is 
in  blessed  fellowship  with  God,  power  flows  into 
it  from  Him,  before  which  strongholds  are  over- 
thrown. "I  am  full  of  power  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,"  said  the  prophet.  "  I  am  a  man  un- 
der authority,  and  have  soldiers  under  me,"  said 
the  centurion. 

Give  yourself  entirely  to  Jesus.  Obey  Him 
absolutely;  receive  by  faith  from  Him  living 
power  and  grace ;  be  a  channel  through  which 
He  may  pour  Himself;  and  you  will  find  that 
men  and  things  will  fall  into  line  at  your  bidding, 
and  you  shall  receive  power.  Our  Libnahs  will 
not  revolt,  unless  we  forsake  the  Lord  God  of 
our  fathers. 

152 


Hid  in  the  House  of  God. 

2  Chron.  xxii.  12. 

SAFE  from  Athaliah,  who  would  have  ruth- 
lessly destroyed  him  if  she  had  had  an  inkling  of 
his  existence,  the  young  Joash  was  reared  beneath 
the  care  of  Jehoiada  and  his  wile  within  the  pre- 
cincts of  the  house  of  God.  He  was  hidden  in 
the  secret  place  of  the  Most  High,  and  abode 
under  the  shadow  of  the  Almighty.  There  let 
us  also  live.  Let  us  know  what  it  is  to  dwell  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord  all  the  days  of  our  life, 
and  all  this  day.  Let  us  cultivate  the  life  which 
is  hid  with  Christ  in  God. 

It  is  well  often  to  remind  ourselves  that  we  are 
in  God,  and  that  the  film  of  His  environing 
presence  is  about  us  like  a  wall  of  thick-ribbed 
steel.  We  are  in  Him  as  the  jewel  in  the  casket; 
as  the  chick  under  the  feathers  of  the  hen  ;  as 
the  child  in  the  warm  embrace  of  its  mother. 
And  so  long  as  we  stay  there  we  are  invulnerable. 
Therefore  our  great  enemy  is  continually  endeav- 
oring to  allure  us  into  the  open ;  he  knows  he 
can  do  as  he  likes  with  us,  if  only  he  can  induce 
us  to  venture  beyond  our  hiding-place.  There- 
fore, beware  of  any  temptation  to  worry,  to 
amass  this  world's  goods,  or  to  seek  the  indul- 
gence of  appetite  ;  it  is  by  such  lures  and  baits 
that  Satan  seduces  unwary  souls  from  their  safe 
hiding. 

If  a  day  in  God's  courts  is  better  than  a  thou- 
sand, what  must  it  be  to  dwell  in  the  house  of  the 
Lord  all  one's  days,  to  behold  His  beauty,  and 
enquire  in  His  temple.  The  rarest  visions,  the 
fairest  fellowship,  the  most  entrancing  joys,  the 
most  confident  outlook  on  life  and  the  hereafter, 
are  the  accompaniments  of  such  a  residence. 
The  altar  of  incense,  the  laver  of  daily  cleansing, 
the  light  of  the  Shekinah,  the  holy  psalm  and 
song,  the  great  altar  of  sacrifice,  are  familiar  ob- 
jects to  the  hidden  soul. 

153 


And  the  city  was  quiet  after  they  had  slain  Atha- 
liah  with  the  sword.  2  Chron.  xxiii.  21. 

THIS  was  a  great  revolution,  admirably  planned 
and  carried  into  effect.  It  was  intolerable  that 
such  a  woman  as  Athaliah  should  desecrate  the 
throne  and  temple.  Jehoiada,  by  his  prudence 
and  courage,  deserved  well  of  the  entire  nation 
in  ridding  the  world  of  her  presence.  No  half 
measures  would  have  availed  to  meet  the  case. 

There  are  times  in  every  life  when  strong  and 
strenuous  action  is  inevitable  if  the  cause  of  God 
is  to  be  promoted  and  saved.  In  many  of  us 
there  is  a  willingness  to  tolerate  evil,  rather  than 
arouse  ourselves  to  grasp  it  with  a  firm  hand,  and, 
if  needs  be,  drag  it  up  by  its  roots.  Be  strong, 
yea,  be  strong,  is  an  injunction  that  has  to  be 
emphasized  even  to  men  who  are  greatly  beloved. 
The  easiest  thing  for  Jehoiada  would  have  been 
to  shut  himself  up  in  the  temple,  and  leave  things 
to  take  their  course.  The  noblest  thing  was  to 
come  forth,  and  boldly  confront  the  rampant  evil 
of  his  time.  So  God's  call  rings  out  for  helpers 
in  the  great  fight  against  sin.  Its  notes  penetrate 
into  the  retirement  of  Christian  homes,  to  noble 
women  and  devoted  men,  demanding  that  they 
should  come  forth  to  resist  impurity,  the  love  of 
strong  drink,  the  strong  tendency  toward  extrav- 
agance, luxury,  and  waste.  The  world  is  full  of 
Athaliahs,  and  it  is  not  befitting  that  the  Jehoia- 
das  should  remain  at  their  holy  rites  and  services 
if  there  is  a  paramount  need  for  action  in  the 
world's  battlefield,  in  the  strife  against  wrong. 

The  children  of  God  are  citizens  of  the  New 
Jerusalem,  but  they  are  also  certainly  citizens 
here ;  and  they  must  not  stand  aside  from  great 
public  issues,  allowing  them  to  be  decided  by  un- 
godly and  wicked  men. 


154 


The  Spirit  of  God  clothed  itself  with  Zechariah 
the  son  of  Jehoiada. 

2  Chron.  xxiv.  20  (r.  V.  fuarg.). 

AS  we  put  on  a  cloak  or  dress,  so  does  the 
Spirit  of  God,  as  it  were,  hide  Himself  in  those 
who  surrender  themselves  to  Him,  so  that  it  is 
not  they  who  speak  and  act,  but  He  within  them. 
Have  you  at  any  time  been  conscious  of  having 
the  clothing  of  the  Holy  Spirit?  Remember 
that  cloth  or  leather  must  yield  itself  easily  to  the 
movements  of  its  wearer,  and  not  less  pliable 
and  supple  must  we  be  to  the  Spirit  of  God. 

When  the  Spirit  of  God  is  thus  within  us,  and 
speaks  or  acts  for  us,  we  may  expect,  as  Zecha- 
riah found  it,  to  come  into  collision  with  the  en- 
tire drift  and  current  of  society  around  us,  and 
to  incur  odium  and  hatred.  Men  do  not  like  to 
be  told  that  they  cannot  prosper  because  they 
have  forsaken  God ;  but  we  have  no  alternative 
than  to  witness  against  their  sins.  Does  the 
Spirit  clothe  Himself  with  you,  my  friend,  as  you 
anticipate  the  work  of  to-day?  Are  you  using 
Him,  or  is  He  to  use  you?  Are  you  seeking  to 
clothe  yourself  with  His  power  for  some  personal 
ambition,  or  are  you  desirous  that  He  should  ar- 
ray Himself  in  you,  so  that  the  glory  may  evi- 
dently be  His?  In  the  agony  of  battle,  when 
great  deeds  are  to  be  done,  no  one  stops  to  think 
of  the  uniform  of  the  soldier,  but  only  of  the 
might  beneath  it. 

But  for  this  you  must  be  prepared  to  pay  the 
cost,  and  be  willing  to  cross  the  cherished  pur- 
poses of  men,  as  the  Spirit  of  God  by  your  voice 
or  deed  witnesses  against  them.  They  stoned 
Zechariah  at  the  command  of  the  king;  but 
years  after  the  Lord  Jesus  referred  to  it,  for  no 
faithful  martyr  seals  his  witness  with  his  blood 
without  some  quick  glance  of  recognition  from 
the  Master,  and  some  record  on  the  imperishable 
tablets  of  his  heart. 

155 


The  Lord  is  able  to  give  thee  much  more  than 
this.  2  Chron.  xxv.  g. 

AMAZIAH  had  many  good  qualities,  but  he 
did  not  clearly  see  how  impossible  it  was  for 
Israel  to  be  allied  with  Judah  without  invalidat- 
ing the  special  Divine  protection  and  care  on 
which  Judah  had  been  taught  to  rely.  We  must 
understand  that  God  cannot  be  in  fellowship 
with  us  if  we  tolerate  fellowship  with  the  un- 
godly. We  must  choose  between  the  two.  If 
we  can  renounce  all  creature  aid,  and  trust  sim- 
ply in  the  eternal  God,  there  is  no  limit  to  the 
victories  He  will  secure;  but  if,  turning  from 
Him,  we  hold  out  our  hand  toward  the  world, 
we  forfeit  His  aid.  O  child  of  God,  let  not  the 
army  of  Israel  go  with  thee !  Do  not  adopt 
worldly  policy,  methods,  or  partnership.  How- 
ever strong  you  make  yourself  for  the  battle  in 
alliance  with  these,  you  will  fail.  Indeed,  God 
Himself  will  make  you  fall  before  the  enemy, 
that  you  may  be  driven  back  to  Himself. 

But  you  say  that  you  have  already  entered  into 
so  close  an  alliance  that  you  cannot  draw  back. 
You  have  invested  your  capital,  you  have  gone  to 
great  expenditure.  Yet  it  will  be  better  to  for- 
feit these  than  Him.  Without  these  aids,  and 
with  only  God  beside  you,  you  will  be  able 
to  rout  Edom,  and  smite  ten  thousand  men. 
Would  that  men  knew  the  absolute  deliverance 
which  God  will  effect  for  those  whose  hearts  are 
perfect  toward  Him ! 

The  soldiers  of  Israel  committed  depredations 
on  their  way  back.  This  was  the  result  of  the 
folly  and  sin  of  Amaziah's  proposal.  We  may 
be  forgiven,  and  delivered,  and  yet  there  will 
be  after-consequences  which  will  follow  us  from 
some  ill-considered  act.  Sin  may  be  forgiven, 
but  its  secondary  results  are  sometimes  very  bit- 
ter.    We  must  expect  to  reap  as  we  sow. 

X56 


He  was  marvellously  helped^  till  he  was  strong. 

2  Chron.  xxvi.  75,  16. 

GREAT  and  marvellous  are  Thy  works,  O 
God ;  that  our  soul  knoweth  quite  well.  Thou 
hast  showed  marvellous  loving-kindness.  We 
must  sing  to  Thee;  for  Thou  hast  done  marvel- 
lous things.  It  is  marvellous  that  Thou  shouldst 
have  set  Thy  love  upon  us ;  that  Thou  shouldst 
have  watched  over  our  interests  with  unwearied 
care ;  that  our  sins,  or  unbelief,  or  declensions, 
have  never  diverted  Thy  love  from  us.  "  Mar- 
vellous "  is  the  only  word  we  can  use,  as  we 
think  of  the  condescension  of  the  well-beloved 
Son  to  the  manger-bed ;  of  the  agony  and 
bloody-sweat ;  of  the  cross  and  passion — and 
all  for  us  who  were  His  enemies.  But  it  is 
most  marvellous  of  all  that  Thou  hast  made  us 
children,  heirs,  and  joint-heirs  with  Christ.  To 
think  that  we  shall  shine  as  the  sun  of  Thy  king- 
dom, that  we  are  to  sit  upon  His  throne,  and 
be  included  in  that  circle  of  love  and  life  of 
which  the  throne  of  God  and  the  Lamb  is  the 
centre  !  Surely  the  marvels  of  Thy  grace  will 
only  seem  the  greater  when  eternity  with  its 
boundless  ages  gives  us  time  to  explore  them. 

The  danger,  however,  is  that  we  should  be- 
come strong  in  our  own  conceit,  and  credit  our- 
selves with  the  position  which  is  due  to  the  grace 
of  God  alone.  Oh  for  the  truly  humble  spirit  of 
the  little  child,  that  we  may  never  vaunt  our- 
selves !  The  laden  ship  sinks  in  the  water ;  the 
fruit-burdened  bough  stoops  to  the  ground  ;  the 
truest  scientist  is  the  humblest  disciple.  Oh  to 
be  submerged  and  abashed  for  the  marvellous 
help  of  God! 

God  cannot  trust  some  of  us  with  prosperity 
and  success,  because  our  nature  could  not  stand 
them.  We  must  tug  at  the  oar,  instead  of  spread- 
ing the  sail,  because  we  have  not  enough  ballast. 

157 


Jotham  became  mighty y   because  he  ordered  his 
ways.  2  Chron.  xxvii.  6  (R.  v.). 

THERE  is  a  lower  sense  in  which  this  holds 
good  in  daily  and  business  life.  You  can  hardly 
imagine  a  really  successful  man  being  untidy  and 
disorderly.  Method  is  the  law  of  success;  and  a 
truly  holy  soul  is  sure  to  be  orderly.  I  do  not 
remember  ever  meeting  one  who  really  walked 
with  God  who  did  not  make  orderliness  one  of 
the  first  principles  of  life. 

The  Lord  Jesus  would  have  the  men  sit  down 
in  rows  before  He  broke  the  bread;  and  He 
wrapped  together  His  grave-clothes  before  He  left 
the  sepulchre.  It  was,  therefore,  in  keeping 
with  the  whole  tenor  of  His  example  when  the 
apostle  prescribed  that  all  things  should  be  done 
decently  and  in  order. 

Clear  handwriting,  especially  the  direction  of 
an  envelope,  to  give  the  postman  as  little  trouble 
as  possible ;  the  careful  folding  of  our  cast-off 
garments,  to  save  the  maids  needless  work ;  the 
leaving  our  room  that  we  have  been  occupying 
as  little  disturbed  in  its  arrangements  as  may  be; 
the  gathering  up  of  luncheon  fragments  from  the 
green  banks,  where  we  have  sat  to  view  the  en- 
trancing prospect ;  the  arrangement  of  papers, 
and  accounts,  and  magazines,  so  that  we  can 
readily  lay  our  hand  upon  whatever  is  required  ; 
the  adopting  of  mental  order  in  prayer  and  con- 
versation, and  in  the  thinking  out  of  plans  and 
purposes;  neatness  in  dress — these  are  all  part 
of  the  right  ordering  of  life  which  makes  for  its 
success  and  comfort,  and  greatly  for  peace  in  the 
home.  They  are  the  habits  of  the  soul  that 
walks  before  God,  and  which  is  accustomed  to 
think  of  Him  as  seeing  in  secret,  and  as  consid- 
ering all  our  ways.  In  this  way  we  may  become 
mighty,  and  by  being  faithful  in  that  which  is 
least  come  to  great  charges. 

158 


They  clothed  all  that  were  7iaked,  and  gave  them 
to  eat  and  drink.  z  Chron.  xxviii.  i^. 

A  GREAT  burst  of  generosity  was  here,  for 
Israel  had  every  reason  to  be  incensed  against 
Judah  for  the  raid  made  on  their  territory.  But, 
instead  of  pushing  their  advantage  to  the  utter- 
most, they  returned  good  for  evil,  and  antici- 
pated the  words  of  ibe  apostle,  "  If  thine  enemy 
hunger,  feed  him  ;  if  he  thirst,  give  him  drink : 
for  in  so  doing  thou  shalt  heap  coals  of  fire  on 
his  head." 

Have  you  in  your  life  people  who  have  done 
you  injury,  and  against  whom  you  entertain  hard 
thoughts?  You  do  not  injure  them  in  return, 
but  you  cannot  pray  for  them.  So  far  as  you 
can,  you  avoid  them;  you  make  no  attempt  to 
overcome  the  evil  that  is  in  them.  But  to  act 
thus  is  to  come  short  of  Christ's  standard.  It  is 
your  duty,  not  merely  to  keep  at  a  distance  and 
give  a  wide  berth,  but  by  love  to  destroy  the  evil, 
to  transform  the  enemy  into  a  friend,  and  to 
create  love  and  friendship  where  hostility  and 
alienation  had  reigned.  It  is  God's  way,  and  in 
this  we  are  bidden  to  be  perfect,  as  our  Heavenly 
Father  is  perfect. 

Will  you  try  it?  Will  you  begin  by  doing 
kind  acts  to  those  who  have  harmed  you?  Not 
because  as  yet  you  feel  as  you  would,  but  because 
it  is  right.  Then  as  you  dig  the  trench  in  right- 
doing,  look  up  to  God,  and  He  will  pour  into 
your  heart  the  warm  gush  of  affection.  If  you 
sincerely  will  His  will  in  this  matter,  and  act  as 
the  Good  Samaritan  did  to  the  Jew,  and  exercise 
faith,  God  will  come  to  your  aid  whilst  you 
clothe  others  and  minister  to  them,  you  will  find 
their  hard  heart  melted,  and  yourselves  clothed 
with  the  beautiful  garments  of  salvation,  and  of  a 
meek  and  quiet  spirit,  which  in  God's  sight  is  of 
great  price. 

*  159 


When  the  hirnt- offering  began ^  the  song  of  the 
Lord  began  also.  2  Chron.  xxix.  27. 

THIS  chapter  contains  a  parable  of  the  cleans- 
ing of  the  heart,  meant  to  be  a  temple  for  God  : 
but  the  doors  of  prayer  are  unopened,  the  lamps 
of  testimony  unlit,  the  burnt-offerings  of  self- 
sacrifice  neglected ;  and,  as  the  result,  grass 
grows  thick  in  courts  which  should  have  been 
trodden  by  the  feet  of  Levite  minstrels  engaged 
in  holy  song.  If  ever  that  song  is  to  break  out 
again,  it  can  only  be  after  a  thorough  cleansing 
and  renovation  of  the  inner  shrine.  You  tell  me 
that  you  cannot  sing  the  Lord's  song;  then  I 
know  you  have  gone  into  the  strange  land  of 
backsliding.  You  acknowledge  that  for  some 
time  now  you  have  taken  no  delight  in  God  or 
His  service;  then  I  am  sure  that  the  temple  is 
badly  in  need  of  renovation. 

Cleanse  the  house  of  the  Lord.  Bring  out  all 
the  uncleanness.  By  self-examination,  confession, 
and  repudiation,  be  clean  of  all  the  filth  which 
has  accumulated  through  months  and  years  of 
neglect.  Resume  the  position  of  entire  devotion, 
as  a  prepared  and  sanctified  soul.  Offer  the  sin- 
offering  for  the  past,  and  prepare  the  burnt-offer- 
ing of  entire  consecration  for  the  future.  And 
when  that  is  offered,  when  you  determine  to  be 
wholly  God's,  lay  yourself,  with  all  the  interests 
of  your  life,  at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  for  His  disposal ; 
then  the  song  of  the  Lord  will  begin  again. 

The  music  of  your  life  is  still,  because  you  are 
out  of  accord  with  the  will  of  God ;  but  when  by 
surrender  and  consecration  there  is  unison,  your 
heart  will  be  filled  with  songs  without  words,  and 
love  like  an  ocean  in  the  fullness  of  her  strength. 
When  the  rich,  selfish  bachelor  suddenly  finds 
himself  compelled  to  care  for  his  dead  brother's 
little  children,  he  is  startled  to  find  that  a  new 
song  has  begun  in  his  life. 

160 


The  good  Lord  pardon  every  one  that  prepareth 
his  heart  to  seek  God.  2  Chroji.  xxx.  18,  ig. 

A  VERY  touching  prayer,  that  opens  up  deep 
thoughts  as  to  the  progress  of  the  true  knowledge 
of  God  in  Israel,  and  of  the  comparative  value 
of  heart  preparation  and  ceremonial  cleansing. 
Here  were  crowds  of  well-meaning  people  who 
had  come  from  all  parts  of  the  land  in  answer  to 
Hezekiah's  invitation.  Unaccustomed  to  temple 
usage,  strangers  to  the  temple  rites,  they  had  par- 
ticipated in  the  festivities  of  this  great  Passover 
without  submitting  first  to  the  necessary  ablutions. 
Their  heart  was  prepared  to  seek  God,  they  were 
proud  of  the  great  past,  they  desired  to  stand 
right  with  the  Lord  God  of  their  fathers;  but 
they  were  sadly  ignorant  and  careless.  The  only 
thing  to  be  done  was  to  pray  that  their  ignorances 
and  negligences  might  be  forgiven. 

It  is  thus  that  Jesus  pleads  in  heaven ;  and 
there  are  many  that  obtain  mercy  on  the  ground 
of  His  merit,  because  when  they  sin  they  do  so 
ignorantly,  and  from  want  of  knowledge  rather 
than  from  want  of  heart.  The  devout  ritualist 
who  lays  an  excessive  stress  on  outward  forms ; 
the  man  who  has  sensuous  and  distorted  views  of 
Christ,  but  sincerely  desires  to  be  accepted  through 
Him ;  the  soul  that  touches  the  hem  of  the  gar- 
ment as  though  the  healing  power  were  inde- 
pendent of  the  will-power  of  the  Redeemer;  the 
dying  malefactor,  who,  in  his  last  hours,  catches 
at  some  distorted  representation  of  Christ  which 
is  filtered  through  to  him  from  the  chance  word 
of  an  uninstructed  preacher — these  are  included 
in  the  fruitful  pleading  of  the  Great  High  Priest, 
who  has  compassion  on  the  ignorant  and  on  those 
who  are  out  of  the  way.  You  may  not  under- 
stand doctrine,  creed,  or  rite;  but  be  sure  to 
seek  God.  No  splendid  ceremonial  nor  rigorous 
etiquette  can  intercept  the  seeking  soul. 

161 


He  did  it  with  all  his  heart  and  prospered. 

2  Chron.  xxxi.  21. 

THE  man  who  does  his  business  with  all  his 
heart,  is  sure  to  prosper.  To  put  your  heart  into 
your  work  is  like  genius  manipulating  common 
materials,  till  their  worth  becomes  priceless,  just 
because  of  what  has  been  put  into  it. 

The  heart  stands  for  the  emotions  and  affec- 
tions. What  the  furnace  is  to  the  factory  or  steam- 
ship, that  the  heart  is  in  the  economy  of  our  na- 
ture. It  is  a  great  thing  to  love  our  life-work,  to 
have  an  aim  that  kindles  us  whenever  we  think 
of  it.  Those  who  are  so  happily  circumstanced, 
cannot  be  sufficiently  thankful.  But  what  of 
those  who  are  bound  to  a  work  which  they  did 
not  choose  and  do  not  like,  who  find  their  daily 
toil  irksome  and  distasteful — is  there  any  help  for 
them?  Can  they  possibly  learn  to  do  such  work 
from  their  hearts?  Certainly:  because  of  Him 
who  set  it,  and  for  whom  it  may  be  done. 

Love  performs  the  most  onerous  duties  with  all 
its  heart,  if  they  conduce  to  the  comfort  and  help 
of  those  whom  it  loves  more  than  itself.  Does 
not  a  mother  or  wife  perform  tasks  from  which  the 
hireling  would  shrink?  She  does  them  with  all 
her  heart,  not  considering  for  a  moment  the 
loathesomeness  and  hardness  of  the  demand.  So 
if  we  look  at  our  life-work  as  God-appointed  ;  if 
we  realize  that  He  has  fixed  it  for  us,  who  de- 
termined the  orbits  of  the  stars;  if  we  can  hear 
the  voice  of  Jesus  saying,  "Do  this  for  Me" — 
there  is  no  further  thought  of  hardship  or  dis- 
taste. Remember  to  do  all  your  life-work  for 
Jesus ;  do  all  in  His  name  and  for  His  glory  ;  ask 
Him  to  fill  your  heart  with  submissive,  loyal 
obedience,  and  you  will  find  that  when  you  in- 
troduce the  personal  element  of  Christ-service 
into  the  meanest  acts,  they  will  glisten  like  a 
piece  of  gold-tapestry. 

162 


Hezekiah  the  king^  and  the  prophet  Isaiah,  prayed 
and  cried  to  heaven.  s  Chron.  xxxii.  20. 

IT  was  the  indignity  done  to  Jehovah  that 
stirred  these  two  holy  men  to  the  heart.  Not 
that  their  lives,  and  the  lives  of  their  people,  and 
the  beautiful  holy  city,  were  in  danger ;  but  that 
Sennacherib  spake  against  the  God  of  Jerusalem, 
as  against  the  gods  of  the  people  of  the  earth, 
which  were  the  work  of  the  hands  of  man.  Oh 
that  we  were  possessed  with  a  similar  zeal  for  God, 
so  that  we  might  look  at  sin  as  it  affects  Him, 
and  lament  over  the  awful  wrongs  which  are  con- 
tinually being  perpetrated  against  His  holy,  lov- 
ing nature  !  What  an  argument  this  would  give 
us  in  prayer ! 

This  constitutes  a  special  reason  why  we  should 
plead  for  a  revival  of  religion  throughout  our  land. 
Men  speak  and  act  so  shamelessly,  as  though  God 
had  abdicated  His  throne,  and  was  hardly  to  be 
taken  account  of.  They  sin  against  Him  with  so 
high  a  hand,  and  treat  His  laws  with  so  much 
contumely.  Are  there  no  Hezekiahs  and  Isaiahs 
who  will  pray  and  cry  to  the  God  of  our  fathers 
to  do  again  the  great  works  He  did  in  their  days, 
and  in  the  old  time  before? 

Then  the  Lord  would  save  us,  and  guide  us  on 
every  side  (22).  There  never  was  a  more  con- 
spicuous and  glorious  deliverance  than  when  the 
angel  of  God  wrought  for  Israel  against  Assyria. 
The  Lord  became  a  place  of  broad  rivers  and 
streams  across  which  the  enemy  could  not  pass. 
As  the  mother  bird  settling  down  on  her  nest, 
He  covered  the  city  with  His  outspread  wings. 
And  the  rich  spoils  of  the  foe  were  left  for  the 
beleagured  garrison.  Pray  on,  beloved  ;  the  Lord 
is  our  Judge,  the  Lord  is  our  Lawgiver,  the  Lord 
is  our  King ;  He  will  save  us. 


163 


When  he  was  in  affliction ^  he  besought  the  Lord 
his   God.  2  Chron.  xxxiii.  12. 

SO  long  as  this  story  stands  on  the  page  of  rev- 
elation, no  sinner  need  despair  of  mercy.  There 
was  hardly  a  sin  possible  to  man  that  Manasseh 
did  not  commit.  *  *  He  did  that  which  was  evil  in 
the  sight  of  the  Lord,  like  unto  the  abominations 
of  the  heathen,  whom  the  Lord  had  cast  out  be- 
fore the  children  of  Israel."  And  he  made  his 
people  do  worse  than  the  heathen. 

Then  came  awful  sorrow.  Bound  in  fetters, 
exposed  to  consummate  cruelty  and  disgrace,  he 
was  carried  to  Babylon,  and  thrust  into  the  dun- 
geons, where  other  captive  princes  were  im- 
mured, with  little  chance  of  liberation  or  permis- 
sion to  revisit  his  native  land.  But  there  the 
Spirit  of  God  did  His  work.  He  humbled  him- 
self greatly,  and  prayed.  What  tears,  and  cries, 
and  bursts  of  heart-broken  penitence,  were  his  ! 
How  those  walls  were  saturated  with  the  breath 
of  confession,  and  those  stone  floors  indented  by 
his  kneeling  at  perpetual  prayer !  And  God 
came  near  to  his  low  dungeon,  and  graciously 
heard  his  supplication,  and  brought  him  back 
again. 

Yes,  and  He  will  do  as  much  for  you.  The 
blood  of  Jesus  Christ  His  Son  cleanseth  from  all 
sin ;  the  grace  of  God  is  exceedingly  abundant 
with  faith  and  love;  all  sins  and  blasphemies 
may  be  forgiven  to  the  sons  of  men.  Turn  to  Him 
with  brokenness  of  soul,  and  He  will  not  only 
forgive,  but  bring  you  again  ;  and  give  you,  as 
He  did  Manasseh,  an  opportunity  of  undoing 
some  of  those  evil  things  which  have  marred  your 
past.  For  the  rest,  it  is  good  not  to  wait  for  af- 
fliction to  stir  us  up  to  seek  God,  but  to  abide  in 
Him  for  love's  dear  sake. 


164 


/  have  found  the  book  of  the  law  in  the  house  of 
the  Lord.  2  Chron.  xxxiv.  75,  iS. 

IT  is  supposed  that  tliis  was  the  Book  of  Deu- 
teronomy ;  though  we  have  no  sympathy  what- 
ever with  a  modern  notion  with  respect  to  its 
discovery.  In  our  judgment  that  book  is  rightly 
ascribed  to  Moses.  Apparently,  however,  it  had 
long  been  missing,  and  the  young  king  was  filled 
with  horror  when  he  heard  the  list  of  evils  that 
were  associated  with  apostasy.  "He  rent  his 
clothes." 

We  should  read  the  Bible  with  a  particular  ap- 
plication to  the  days  in  which  we  live.  It  is 
well  enough  to  accept  its  statements  as  being 
generally  true  and  credible ;  but  it  is  better  to 
realize  their  pertinence  to  ourselves  and  our  cir- 
cumstances. The  book  of  the  law  had  been 
sadly  neglected  in  the  years  preceding  Josiah's 
accession ;  and  through  the  neglect  of  God's 
Word  the  people  had  become  indifferent  to  His 
commands,  and  deaf  to  the  appeals  of  His  proph- 
ets. Josiah  turned  the  lantern  on  the  evils  of 
His  time,  and  saw  how  God  was  feeling  with 
respect  to  them. 

The  Bible  is  a  book  for  all  time.  What  it 
said,  it  says.  What  it  was,  it  is.  You  tell  me  it 
was  written  so  many  centuries  ago ;  but  I  reply 
the  ink  is  still  wet  on  its  immortal  pages.  They 
have  been  read  and  pondered  by  generations; 
but  the  light  of  its  eye  is  not  dim,  nor  its  natural 
force  abated.  Sin  is  the  same,  man  the  same, 
God  the  same,  in  all  ages.  And  the  Bible's 
claim  to  be  God's  Word  is  substantiated  by  the 
fact  that  it  is  possessed  of  living  power,  and  of 
the  same  perennial  freshness  as  the  sun,  or  the 
spring,  or  the  ocean,  or  the  faces  of  the  little 
children.  Would  that  we  might  daily  read  it  as 
we  read  the  newspaper,  damp  from  the  press,  re- 
alizing that  it  is  our  Father's  great  message  for 
the  life  of  every  day  ! 

165 


Prepare. 
2  Chron.  xxxv.  4,  6,  10,  14,  i^,  16. 

NO  great  court  function  can  be  carried  through 
successfully,  without  careful  preparation.  And 
Josiah's  passover  was  so  vast  and  rare  a  success 
because  of  the  large  amount  of  previous  prepara- 
tion, as  is  described  in  this  chapter.  The  priests 
and  Levites  were  prepared  by  careful  washings 
and  ceremonial  rites.  The  course  of  the  sacri- 
fices was  ordered  according  to  the  law  of  Moses. 
The  routine  of  sacred  song  and  praise  was  also 
provided  for.  Nothing  was  left  to  haphazard  or 
chance. 

We  are  taught  to  rely  on  the  promptings  and 
inspirations  of  the  Holy  Spirit ;  and  it  is  certain 
that  He  would  use  us  more  on  special  errands,  if 
we  were  to  trust  and  obey  Him  better.  But 
these  extraordinary  ministries  should  not  lead  us 
to  a  life  of  haphazard.  We  should  prepare  our- 
selves for  service  so  far  as  we  may,  laying  our 
plans,  anticipating  the  calls  and  exigencies  of 
coming  days,  and  preparing  for  the  demand 
which  almost  certainly  will  be  made  on  us.  We 
may  have  to  give  our  special  words  and  addresses 
and  arrangements  to  the  winds;  but  we  shall 
always  need  that  preparedness  of  heart  which  is 
necessary  for  those  who  are  to  be  used  of  God. 

Remember  what  is  said  of  the  vessels  that  were 
purged  from  uncleanness,  sanctified,  meet  for  the 
Master's  use,  and  prepared  unto  every  good 
work.  Be  always  in  your  own  place,  clean  so  far 
as  you  can  be,  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  with 
the  handle  of  your  life  turned  toward  the 
Master's  hand,  that  at  any  moment  He  may  take 
hold  of  you,  and  use  you  for  His  holy  service. 
By  the  diligent  study  of  His  Word,  as  well  as  by 
earnest  prayer  and  waiting  upon  God,  you  will 
be  prepared  to  do  His  will. 


166 


Rising  up  betimes. 

2  Chron.  xxxvi.  /j*. 

WHAT  a  touching  and  graphic  phrase  !  How 
did  God  yearn  over  that  sinful  and  rebellious 
city!  Sending  His  messengers,  "rising  up  be- 
times, and  sending  " — like  a  man  who  has  had  a 
sleepless  night  of  anxiety  for  his  friend  or  child, 
and  rises  with  the  dawn  to  send  a  servant  on  a 
mission  of  inquiry,  or  a  message  of  love.  How 
eager  God  is  for  men's  salvation  ! 

From  God's  eagerness,  may  we  not  learn  a 
lesson  of  anxiety  for  the  souls  of  men  ?  We  do 
not  long  after  them  enough,  or  rise  betimes  to 
urge  them  to  repent.  Did  we  realize  what 
heaven  is,  or  hell,  what  men  are  missing  or  in- 
curring, what  our  duty  is,  as  saved  ourselves,  we 
should  rise  up  betimes  to  seek  their  eternal  in- 
terests. 

But  if  God  rises  betimes  to  seek  men,  should 
they  not  do  the  same  to  seek  Him?  Think  you 
not,  that  when  Adam  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
God  walking  in  the  garden  at  morning  prime,  he 
would  be  up  and  away  to  meet  Him  on  the  up- 
land lawns  of  Paradise?  Can  we  wonder  that 
our  Master  would  rise  up  a  great  while  before 
day,  to  meet  His  Father  on  some  unfrequented 
height  ?  Let  us  not  cling  to  beds  of  sloth  when 
God  is  awaiting  us;  let  us  heed  His  loving  re- 
monstrances, that  we  may  be  saved  in  the  over- 
throw of  the  world ;  and  let  us,  like  Lot,  pass  on 
the  word  to  others  enwrapt  in  fatal  slumber 
around  us,  bidding  them  to  escape  to  the  moun- 
tains, before  the  sun  rise  on  the  earth,  lest  they 
be  consumed. 

It  was  the  practice  of  Sir  Henry  Havelock, 
during  his  campaigns  in  India,  always  to  have 
two  hours  for  prayer  and  Bible  study  before  the 
march.  If  the  camp  was  struck  at  6:00  a.  m.,  he 
would  rise  at  4:00. 

167 


The  Lord  stirred  up  the  spirit  of  Cyrus. 

Ezra.  i.  i. 

THERE  were  many  rays  focused  on  this  spot. 
In  the  first  place,  it  had  been  definitely  foretold 
by  Jeremiah  that  the  captivity  would  only  last 
for  seventy  years.  In  the  next  place,  Daniel, 
having  learned  from  comparison  of  dates  that  the 
allotted  time  had  nearly  expired,  had  set  himself 
to  pray.  Also,  if  Josephus  be  credited,  the  aged 
prophet  had  shown  the  young  king  the  predic- 
tions of  Isaiah  in  which  his  own  name  was  clearly 
mentioned:  "Thus  saith  the  Lord  to  His 
anointed,  to  Cyrus,  whose  right  hand  I  have 
holden  :  ...  he  shall  build  my  city,  and  he 
shall  let  go  my  captives,  not  for  price  nor  reward, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts"  (Isa.  xlv.  i,  13). 

God  is  the  fountain-head  and  source  of  all 
spiritual  blessing,  and  of  all  those  great  move- 
ments  for  the  uplifting  and  enlightenment  of 
mankind  which  have  swept  from  time  to  time 
over  the  world.  Go  to  Him  when  you  want  to 
reach  the  heart  of  kings,  prophets,  and  people. 
Oh  for  the  faith  of  Samuel,  Elijah,  Daniel,  and 
other  stalwart  men  of  God,  that  through  Him  we 
may  stir  up  the  spirits  of  those  who  will  not  lis- 
ten to  our  appeals  !  For  the  fervent  prayer  of  a 
righteous  man  still  availeth  much.  In  prayer  you 
can  touch  the  spring  of  all  the  stirrings  that  the 
world  needs. 

But  it  is  not  enough  for  God  to  stir  men,  they 
must  obey.  It  appears  that  only  a  comparatively 
small  number  of  captive  Jews  obeyed  the  Divine 
stirring  and  came  out  of  Babylon  with  the  chief 
of  the  fathers.  The  call  resounds  for  volunteers, 
but  only  a  few  respond  ;  the  inspiration  breathes 
over  us,  but  only  some  are  susceptible  to  it.  God 
works  to  will  and  to  do,  but  only  certain  of  the 
children  of  men  work  out  what  He  works  in. 
Whenever  there  is  a  Divine  stirring  abroad,  let 
us  rise  up  and  go. 

168 


Till  there  stood  up  a  priest  with  Urim  and  with 
Thummim.  Erza  U.  63. 

IT  must  have  been  a  great  disappointment  to 
these  people  who  found  themselves  excluded  from 
sharing  as  priests.  Their  names  were  not  on  the 
register,  and  so  they  had  to  wait  until  a  properly- 
qualified  authority  could  adjudicate  their  case. 
The  mere  inference  of  reason  was  not  enough  ; 
they  needed  the  direct  corroboration  of  the 
anointed  priest  with  Urim  and  with  Thummim. 

So  in  our  life  it  is  not  enough  to  rely  on  the 
inference  of  reason,  or  to  allow  our  Christian 
standing  to  be  determined  by  the  evidence  of  a 
document.  We  must  seek  the  direct  witness  and 
testimony  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  How  many  Chris- 
tians there  are  who  have  no  experimental  knowl- 
edge of  what  the  Apostle  meant  when  he  said 
that  the  Spirit  witnesseth  with  our  spirit  that  we 
are  born  again.  They  are  always  referring  to  in- 
ference, and  the  testimony  of  others;  and  there- 
fore their  consciousness  varies,  and  they  cannot 
eat  of  the  holy  bread  of  God.  But  when  the 
Spirit  of  God  speaks  through  the  Urim  and 
Thummin,  and  certifies  that  we  are  the  children 
of  God,  giving  us  the  white  stone  with  its  new 
name,  and  revealing  Christ  as  dwelling  within 
us,  we  have,  immediately,  boldness  to  enter  into 
the  holiest  of  all,  and  eat  of  the  holy  things. 

Assurance  is  needful  before  we  dare  to  appro- 
priate the  things  which  are  freely  given  to  us  of 
God.  Who  of  us  is  not  able  to  verify  this  from 
his  personal  experience?  We  could  not  enjoy 
the  Father's  table,  so  long  as  there  was  a  doubt 
about  our  sonship.  But  the  assurance  of  faith 
may  be  ours  as  we  wait  in  the  presence  of  our 
great  High  Priest,  speaking  to  us  by  the  Holy 
Spirit,  who  witnesses  with  our  spirits  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God. 


And  they  set  the  altar  yp07i  its  bases. 

Ezra  Hi.  j. 

THIS  is  the  first  thing  that  must  be  done  be- 
fore our  temple-building  or  other  undertakings 
can  be  crowned  with  success.  It  was  well  that 
the  returned  remnant  made  this  their  care;  it 
augured  well  for  their  future.  The  new  start 
that  God  Himself  was  giving  would  have  been 
invalidated  without  that  altar,  which  meant  for- 
giveness for  the  past,  and  renewed  consecration 
for  the  future. 

Where  is  the  altar  in  your  life  ?  Where  the 
burned  sacrifice  which  betokens  entire  surrender 
of  consecration  ?  It  cannot  be  too  often  insisted 
on,  that  since  Christ  died  for  all,  all  died  in  Him. 
We  were  not  only  saved  by  His  death,  we  were 
included  in  it,  but  we  must  appropriate  and  iden- 
tify ourselves  with  it.  We  must  look  up  to  God 
and  say,  "I  desire  that  this  death  should  be 
mine,  to  the  world,  to  sin,  to  the  flesh  ;  make  it 
so  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  in  Jesus 
I  may  be  truly  dead  unto  sin,  but  alive  unto 
Thee." 

Perhaps  that  last  clause  will  help  some  souls 
most.  Do  not  perpetually  dwell  on  the  dying 
side,  but  think  much  of  the  living  side.  Yield 
yourselves  to  receive  God's  life,  which  is  the  life 
of  the  Son  of  God  in  the  surrendered  nature. 
Be  very  sensitive,  and  "quick  of  scent,"  to 
every  movement  and  prompting  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  Seek  the  things  which  are  above,  where 
Christ,  your  life,  is  seated.  So  you  will  find 
your  energy  drained  away  from  self  to  Christ. 
Because  He  lives  you  will  live  also.  A  maple 
tree  plantea  on  a  barren  soil  sent  out  one  of  its 
rootlets  to  a  richer  patch  not  far  away,  and  ulti- 
mately all  its  roothold  was  there,  till  finally  it 
was  bodily  moved  and  transferred  from  its  first 
position  to  this  more  salubrious  one. 

170 


Let  us  build  with  you. 

Ezra.  iv.  2^ 

AT  first  the  world  does  its  best  to  intimidate 
the  Church  ;  then  it  asks  to  be  permitted  to  join 
with  it.  A  most  subtle  temptation  this.  The 
child  of  God  is  greatly  inclined  to  yield ;  the 
proposal  seems  so  harmless,  and  so  likely  to  be  a 
means  of  blessing  to  the  poor,  hungry,  weary 
world.  But  there  is  only  one  condition  on  which 
the  world  may  be  admitted  ;  it  must  yield  a  true 
and  humble  submission  to  the  cross,  and  be  will- 
ing to  give  up  all  for  Jesus — conditions  which  the 
world  will  not  consider  for  a  moment;  and  so  its 
heart  is  filled  with  bitterness  and  gall,  and  it  sets 
itself  to  hinder  where  it  had  professed  willing- 
ness to  help. 

There  are  five  things  of  which  we  are  expressly 
bidden  to  beware — they  are  five  phases  of  an  un- 
equal yoke  :  fellowship  with  unrighteousness  ; 
communion  with  darkness;  concord  with  Belial; 
part  with  an  unbeliever;  agreement  with  idols. 
Let  us  beware  of  these  things,  and  cleanse  our- 
selves from  all  filthiness  of  the  flesh  and  spirit. 
There  may  seem  to  be  great  loss  and  needless 
sacrifice  in  dispensing  with  the  help  of  Rehum 
and  Shimshai ;  but  if  once  we  accepted  their 
help,  we  should  discover  to  our  cost  that  they 
were  adversaries  still,  and  that  their  only  desire 
was  to  retard  our  efforts. 

We  sometimes  shrink  from  some  great  under- 
taking for  God,  and  are  inclined  to  accept  the 
proffered  aid  of  wealthy  but  ungodly  men.  But 
their  help  may  be  purchased  by  the  cost  of  all 
that  makes  our  work  worth  doing.  ''Be  ye  not 
unequally  yoked  together  with  unbelievers  ;  for 
what  fellowship  hath  righteousness  with  unright- 
eousness? " 

"  Yea,  with  one  mouth,  O  world,  though  thou  deniest. 
Stand  thou  on  that  side,  for  on  this  am  I." 

171 


The  eye  of  their  God  was  upon  the  elders  of  the 
Jews.  Ezra  V.  J. 

IT  was  a  delightful  thought  amid  obloquy  and 
opposition,  like  that  which  the  Jews  were  at  this 
moment  encountering,  to  know  that  God  was 
watching  them  with  jealous  care.  We  are  re- 
minded of  the  words  of  the  Psalmist,  quoted  and 
authenticated  by  the  Apostle  Peter,  "The  eyes  of 
the  Lord  are  upon  the  righteous,  and  His  ears 
open  to  their  cry ;  but  the  face  of  the  Lord  is 
against  them  that  do  evil."  And  he  goes  on  to 
argue,  "Who  is  he  that  will  harm  you,  if  ye  be 
followers  of  that  which  is  good?"  The  Jews 
certainly  found  it  so;  for  the  efforts  of  their 
enemies  to  induce  them  to  desist  from  their  work 
of  temple-building  were  rendered  nugatory  and 
ineffectual  by  the  special  care  exercised  over  them 
by  their  Almighty  Friend. 

It  may  be  that  you  will  have  to  encounter 
hatred  and  opposition  in  doing  God's  work  ;  but 
be  sure  not  to  look  at  these  things,  but  steadfastly 
to  Jesus.  Must  you  not  watch  the  foe?  No; 
you  could  not  make  a  greater  mistake.  You  must 
look  away  to  the  face  of  Jesus,  and  you  will  find 
that  He,  like  a  good  shepherd,  is  looking  care- 
fully and  lovingly  down  on  you,  and  watching 
the  stealthy  movements  of  your  foe.  Even  when 
we  are  not  directly  conscious  of  that  watchful  eye, 
it  still  follows  us.  He  knoweth  the  way  that  you 
take ;  and  He  is  acquainted  with  the  varied  cir- 
cumstances of  your  life.  He  has  pledged  Him- 
self to  be  with  you  forever ;  as  Wordsworth  once 
said  of  his  beloved  daughter  Dora  : — 

«  Dear  child,  fair  child,  that  vvalkest  with  me  here, 
Though  thou  appear  untouched  by  solemn  thought, 
Thy  nature  is  not  therefore  less  divine; 
Thou  liest  in  Abraham's  bosom  all  the  year, 
Thou  worshippest  at  the  temple's  inner  shrine, 
God  being  with  thee  when  thou  knowest  not" 

172 


The  Lord  had  fnade  them  Joyful,  and  turned  the 
heart  of  the  Kmg  irnto  them.  Ezra  vL  22. 

YES,  the  hearts  of  men  are  in  the  hands  of 
God,  and  He  can  turn  them  whither  He  will. 
There  are  many  instances  of  this  in  Scripture. 
God  gave  Joseph  favor  with  Pharaoh ;  Moses 
with  the  Princess;  and  Daniel  with  the  King  of 
Babylon.  If  certain  matters  can  only  be  settled 
by  reference  to  great  men,  kings  or  men  of  affairs, 
make  the  application ;  and  then  betake  yourself 
to  prayer,  believing  that  as  He  inclined  the  heart 
of  Darius,  in  the  instance  before  us,  so  He  can 
do  as  He  will  among  the  armies  of  heaven,  and 
the  inhabitants  of  earth. 

That  unkind  overseer,  that  vexatious  member 
of  your  home-circle,  that  great  man  whose  help 
you  so  greatly  need — these  are  accessible  to 
God's  Spirit,  if  only  you  are  intent  on  seeking  His 
glory,  and  doing  His  will.  But  you  must  be  able 
to  show,  as  these  Jews  could,  that  your  cause  is 
identical  with  the  cause  of  God,  before  you  can 
claim,  with  unwavering  faith,  His  interference  on 
your  behalf. 

Then  when  the  answer  comes,  let  us  thank 
Him,  separating  ourselves  still  further  from  the 
filthiness  around  us,  so  as  to  keep  the  feast  with 
joy.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  joy ;  when  God  makes 
you  joyful,  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  restrain 
your  songs  or  smiles,  for  fear  that  an  equivalent  of 
sorrow  will  presently  be  meted  out  as  a  make- 
weight. Our  blessed  Lord  was  desirous  that  His 
joy  might  be  in  His  disciples  ;  it  was  for  the  joy 
that  was  set  before  Him  that  He  endured  the 
cross,  despising  the  shame,  and  is  set  down  at  the 
right  hand  of  the  throne  of  God  ;  it  is  with  ex- 
ceeding joy  that  He  will  present  us  faultless  be- 
fore the  presence  of  His  glory.  "  Thou  shalt  re- 
joice in  every  good  thing  which  the  Lord  thy 
God  giveth  thee." 

173 


/  was  strengthened f  as  the  hand  of  the  Lord  my 
God  was  upon  me.  Ezra  vii.  28. 

IT  was  no  small  work  that  the  good  Ezra  had 
undertaken.  To  lead  a  great  expedition  across 
the  inhospitable  desert ;  to  convoy  the  sacred  ves- 
sels and  a  large  treasure  of  gold  and  silver;  to 
set  magistrates  and  judges  over  all  that  great  dis- 
trict beyond  the  river — this  was  no  slight  task, 
and  he  needed  strength.  But  in  the  simple 
language  of  his  heart  the  good  hand  of  his  God 
was  upon  him,  and  that  was  sufficient  to  nerve 
and  strengthen  him. 

It  is  wonderful  what  resistless  might  comes  to 
the  soul,  when  it  realizes  that  it  is  treading  the 
path,  and  working  out  the  career,  determined  for 
it  from  all  eternity  by  the  Almighty.  The 
thought  imparts  the  same  kind  of  impulse  to  the 
soul,  as  the  touch  of  love  or  authority  on  the 
arm.  We  are  reminded  of  the  veteran,  who, 
when  charged  by  the  Duke  of  Wellington  to  take 
a  difficult  position,  turned  to  him  and  said,  **I 
will  go,  sir ;  but  first  give  me  a  grip  of  your  con- 
quering hand." 

Think,  soul,  of  what  that  hand  is  which  holds 
the  waters  in  its  hollow,  and  spreads  the  curtains 
of  the  sky,  and  was  nailed  to  the  cross;  that 
brought  blessing  with  its  touch  to  so  many  weary 
sufferers,  and  now  holds  the  mysterious  book, 
sealed  with  seven  seals ;  that  caught  Peter,  and 
lay  lightly  on  the  heads  of  the  little  babes.  That 
hand  is  strengthening  thee  for  a  work  for  which 
by  nature  thou  art  unequal,  but  to  which  thou 
hast  been  evidently  called.  Go  forward :  it 
holds,  guides,  empowers  thee.  It  can  lead  thee 
before  kings,  princes,  and  nobles,  so  that  thou 
shalt  not  fear ;  it  can  preserve  thee  from  dangers 
innumerable;  it  can  shield  thee  from  the  fire  of 
the  enemy;  and  none,  man  or  devil,  can  pluck 
you  out  of  the  Father's  hand. 

174 


Watch  ye,  and  keep  them,  until  ye  weigh  them  at 
Jeriisalejn.  Ezra  viii.  2g, 

THEY  were  protected  by  God,  whose  presence 
with  them  across  the  wild  desert  made  it  needless 
to  ask  for  an  escort  of  soldiers ;  but  they  had  to 
take  care  of  the  precious  vessels  of  His  house.  It 
was  a  reciprocal  trust.  So  it  must  be  with  us,  as 
we  are  taught  in  2  Tim.  i.  12,  14.  There  are  two 
deposits,  as  the  margin  shows.  We  deposit  our- 
selves, and  all  we  are  and  have,  with  God ; 
whilst  He  deposits  with  us  His  sacred  Gospel,  the 
vessels  of  which  we  must  "guard  through  the 
Holy  Ghost  which  dwelleth  in  us,"  and  be  pre- 
pared to  defend  with  our  blood. 

Our  deposit  with  God. — How  safe  are  they 
who  commit  their  all  to  God  !  Faraday  was 
asked,  when  dying,  on  what  supposition  he  de- 
pended as  he  contemplated  the  other  world  ;  and 
he  replied,  "  I  am  relying  on  no  supposition,  but 
on  a  certainty ;  I  know  in  whom  I  have  believed, 
and  am  persuaded  that  He  is  able  to  keep  that 
which  I  have  committed  to  Him." 

God's  deposit  with  us. — But  let  us  be  true  to 
our  trust.  The  Holy  Bible,  the  Doctrines  of  the 
Christian  Church,  the  Day  of  Rest,  the  House  of 
God,  the  ordinances  of  the  Lord's  Supper  and 
Christian  Baptism — these  are  some  of  the  vessels 
which  have  been  passed  down  to  us,  and  we  must 
hand  on  intact.  Be  ye  clean  that  carry  them  ! 
Oh,  what  joy  it  will  be  when  we  reach  our  des- 
tination, and  can  resign  our  trust,  and  weigh  out 
the  deposit,  and  hear  the  Master's  "Well  done  !  " 
But,  in  the  meanwhile,  whilst  marching  across 
the  yellow  sands,  where  wild  dangers  lie  in  wait, 
let  us  not  seek  the  escort  of  creature  or  worldly 
might ;  but  boast  of  the  Hand  of  our  God,  which 
is  for  good  upon  all  them  that  seek  Him. 

175 


The  people  have  not  separated  themselves. 

Ezra  ix.  i. 

THIS  was  only  too  true  !  There  had  been,  on 
the  part  of  princes  and  rulers,  gross  intermarriage 
with  the  people  of  surrounding  lands.  The  holy 
seed  had  become  mixed  and  diluted.  And  it  was 
the  more  sad  that  this  should  have  taken  place, 
when  it  was  to  cleanse  His  people  from  such  alli- 
ances, and  the  evils  to  which  they  inevitably  led, 
that  God  had  passed  them  through  the  purging 
fires  of  the  seventy  years'  captivity.  It  afflicted 
the  good  Ezra  sorely.  With  every  sign  of  Ori- 
ental grief  he  poured  out  his  soul  before  God. 
And  this  is  the  lesson  we  should  carry  with  us. 
It  has  been  truly  said  that  communion  with  the 
Lord  dries  many  tears,  but  it  starts  many  more. 
We  no  longer  sorrow  with  the  sorrow  of  the 
world ;  but  we  become  burdened  with  some  of 
the  griefs  that  still  rend  the  heart  of  the  Lord  in 
the  glory. 

This  fellowship  between  the  Lord's  people  and 
the  world  is  becoming  increasingly  close  as  we 
near  the  end  of  the  age.  In  the  appointments  of 
our  homes,  our  amusements,  books,  and  practices, 
there  is  very  little  to  choose  between  the  one  and 
the  other.  If  there  is  any  distinction,  it  lies  in  a 
certain  sadness  with  which  Christians  take  their 
pleasures,  as  though  remembering  a  something 
better.  But  the  rest  of  us  do  not  grieve  over  it ; 
we  do  not  rend  our  clothes :  we  do  not  take  these 
things  to  heart,  as  though  they  especially  con- 
cerned us. 

Let  us  at  least  separate  ourselves  after  the  man- 
ner of  Christ,  who  frequented  the  temple,  ac- 
knowledged the  State,  accepted  invitations  to 
great  houses;  but  His  heart  and  speech  always 
revolved  about  His  Father.  What  if  it  led  to  our 
being  cast  out  without  the  camp  ! 


176 


We  also  will  be  with  thee :  be  of  good  courage , 
and  do  it.  Ezra  X.  4. 

THIS  narrative  reminds  us  of  the  story  of 
Achan,  who  took  of  the  accursed  thing,  and  kin- 
dled the  anger  of  the  Lord  against  the  children 
of  Israel.  There  must  be  confession  and  the 
putting  away  of  evil  ere  communion  with  God 
can  be  reestablished. 

It  is  not  given  to  every  one  to  be  an  Ezra. 
There  are  abuses  to  deal  with,  and  wrongs  to 
right,  on  every  side ;  but  they  require  to  be  dealt 
with  by  those  who  are  specially  adapted  or  quali- 
fied for  the  work.  Be  always  ready  to  do  such 
work,  if  there  should  be  no  one  else.  It  was  the 
life  motto  of  a  great  man  always  to  act  as  though 
there  were  no  one  else  who  would.  Still,  Nehe- 
miahs  and  Ezras  are  not  given  very  largely  to  the 
Church  or  the  world  ;  and,  for  the  most  part,  we 
must  be  content  to  be  of  those  who  say,  "  Be  of 
good  courage,  and  do  it;  we  also  will  be  with 
thee."  But  though  this  seems  but  a  little  thing,  it 
may  lead  to  great  results.  Many  a  man  has  been 
urged  to  a  noble  deed  by  the  encouragement  he 
received  at  a  critical  hour  from  some  unknown 
and  obscure  disciple. 

If  you  cannot  do  a  great  thing,  identify  your- 
self with  one  who  can.  Stand  by  him,  identify 
yourself  with  him  in  public  or  private,  by  sympa- 
thy and  prayer.  Though  the  strongholds  of  evil 
are  great  and  high,  they  may  be  swept  away  be- 
fore an  avalanche  of  snowflakes,  any  one  of  which 
would  melt  in  the  warm  hand  of  a  child. 

Oh  for  more  of  that  magnanimity,  which  is 
quick  to  recognize  the  matters  that  belong  to 
certain  elect  souls — not  envying,  nor  disparaging, 
but  frankly  confessing  their  eminent  qualifica- 
tions, and  falling  in  to  further  and  accelerate 
their  success,  which  will  be  the  gain  of  all ! 


177 


/  was  the  king  V  cupbearer. 

Nek.  i.  II. 

THE  post  was  an  important  one.  It  gave  its 
occupant  the  opportunity  of  coming  into  close 
contact  with  the  king;  it  implied  a  character  of 
unusual  trustworthiness,  since  Oriental  despots 
were  very  afraid  of  poison.  But  no  one  expected 
a  royal  cupbearer  to  do  anything  very  heroic. 
He  lived  in  the  inner  part  of  the  palace,  and  was 
necessarily  excluded  from  the  great  deeds  of  the 
stirring  outward  world.  Nehemiah  also  was  evi- 
dently a  humble  and  retiring  man.  His  response 
to  the  story  of  the  ruined  condition  of  Jerusalem 
was  just  a  flood  of  tears  and  prayer  to  the  God  of 
heaven.  And  had  you  seen  those  tears  and  heard 
that  prayer,  you  might  have  thought  that  just 
another  flower  was  drooping,  another  seed  falling 
into  the  ground  to  die. 

But  this  was  not  all.  These  prayers  and  tears 
were  supplemented  by  an  earnest  purpose,  which 
was  maturing  with  every  hour.  He  gave  himself 
to  God  to  be  used,  if  God  would  have  it  so,  as  an 
instrument  in  the  execution  of  His  recorded  pur- 
pose. He  was  a  man  of  faith.  It  mattered  little 
enough  that  he  was  only  a  cupbearer,  for  that 
was  no  barrier  to  God  ;  indeed,  God  might  work 
more  efficiently  through  a  frail,  weak  man,  than 
through  the  prince,  the  soldier,  or  the  orator, 
since  He  cannot  give  His  glory  to  another. 
What  a  glorious  faith  was  his,  which  dared  to  be- 
lieve that  through  his  yielded  life  God  could 
pour  His  mighty  rivers  !  Why  do  we  not  yield 
ourselves  in  our  helplessness  to  God,  and  ask 
Him  to  work  through  us,  to  fulfill  His  mighty 
purposes  ? 

"  We  kneel,  how  weak  !     We  rise,  how  full  of  power ! 
Why  therefore  should  we  do  ourselves  this  wrong, 
Or  others — that  we  are  not  always  strong !  " 

178 


So  I  prayed  to  the  God  of  Heaven. 

Neh.  it.  4. 

ALL  around  the  apartment  in  which  this  inter- 
view took  place  were  effigies  of  idol  gods  :  per- 
haps incense  was  burning  before  a  shrine,  and 
filling  the  air  with  its  aroma.  But  Nehemiah, 
though  standing  amid  these  heathen  emblems, 
and  in  the  presence  of  the  greatest  king  on  earth, 
thought  little  of  either  one  or  the  other,  and  pros- 
trated himself  in  spirit  before  the  throne  of 
heaven.  Remember  that  thou  hast  within  thee 
a  shrine,  a  temple  into  which  at  any  moment, 
even  amid  the  excitement  of  an  earthly  court, 
thou  mayest  retire  and  ask  direction  of  thy  King 
and  Friend. 

He  had  been  sorely  startled  by  the  king's 
question  ;  he  did  not  know  that  his  face  had  be- 
trayed him.  He  had,  doubtless,  intended  to 
seek  an  interview  with  the  king,  and  formally  state 
the  whole  case  (see  i.  11).  But  to  be  taken  thus 
at  unawares,  to  have  to  state  his  case  on  the  spur  of 
the  moment,  appeared  to  take  him  at  a  great  dis- 
advantage ;  and  he  instinctively  turned  to  prayer. 

How  little  the  king  knew  what  was  transpiring, 
or  what  had  happened  between  his  question  and 
the  reply  which  was  given,  apparently,  without 
the  loss  of  a  moment.  But  how  beautiful  is  the 
example  for  ourselves  1  You  cannot  acquire  this 
habit  of  ejaculatory  prayer  unless  you  spend  pro- 
longed periods  in  holy  fellowship.  But  when 
you  are  much  with  God  in  private,  you  will  not 
find  it  difficult  at  any  moment  to  step  aside  to 
ask  Him  a  question.  The  busy  mart  or  the 
crowded  street  may  at  any  time  become  the  place 
of  prayer. 

"  A  touch  divine 
And  the  scaled  eyeball  owns  the  mystic  rod; 
Visibly  through  His  garden  walketh  God." 

179 


Every  one  over  against  his  house. 

Neh.  Hi.  28. 

THIS  is  the  way  to  deal  with  the  evil  of  this 
world.  We  are  all  fonder  of  starting  schemes, 
forming  committees,  and  discussing  methods  of 
work,  than  in  setting  definitely  to  work  for  our- 
selves. There  is  a  lack  of  definiteness,  and  we 
hardly  know  where  to  begin.  But  this  verse  sug- 
gests that  every  one  should  begin  over  against  his 
own  house.  Try  and  make  your  own  neighbor- 
hood a  little  more  like  what  God  would  have  it. 
It  may  be  that  you  have  gone  too  far  afield  in 
search  of  work ;  you  are  applying  to  the  Foreign 
Missionary  Society,  or  are  waiting  for  a  sphere 
of  service ;  yet,  all  the  time,  there  is  that  wretched 
neighborhood,  like  a  piece  of  ruined  wall  before 
you.     Arise  and  repair  it ! 

Meshullam  repaired  over  against  his  chamber 
(ver.  30).  Perhaps  he  was  not  rich  enough  to 
have  a  whole  house ;  he  lived  in  a  single  room, 
but  he  discovered  that  there  was  a  little  bit  of  the 
wall  just  opposite  his  window,  which  would  not 
be  built  unless  he  set  to  it.  Is  not  that  a  hint 
for  college  students,  and  for  those  who  live  in 
flats,  or  industrial  dwellings? 

The  best  way  is  not  immediately  to  begin 
giving  tracts,  good  though  that  is  in  its  place. 
Ask  God  to  give  you  an  opportunity  of  showing 
kindness  to  your  neighbors,  so  that  they  get  to 
understand  and  trust  you ;  and  wait  upon  God 
until  the  answer  comes — until  He  shall  show  you 
what  step  He  would  have  you  take  next.  This  is 
the  foundation  of  your  bit  of  wall.  Then  plod 
on  step  by  step,  tier  by  tier.  God  will  show  you 
how.  You  may  be  unpracticed  in  wall-building ; 
but  He  is  the  Architect  and  Builder,  and  you  are 
but  a  bricklayer's  laborer  at  the  best.  Do  as  He 
tells  you. 


180 


Remember  the  Lord. 

Nek.  iv.  14. 

IT  was  uncommonly  good,  advice.  Amid  all 
the  wise  precautions  taken  by  this  man  of  sancti- 
fied common-sense,  he  kept  bringing  the  people 
back  to  God.  God  was  amongst  them.  God 
would  fight  for  them.  God  was  going  to  bring 
the  counsel  of  their  enemies  to  nought. 

This  would  make  a  good  motto  for  daily  living. 
If  in  all  circumstances  we  would  remember  the 
Lord,  the  way  would  be  brightened ;  the  burdens 
would  fall;  our  spirits  would  never  droop;  and 
songs  of  joy  would  take  the  place  of  sadness. 
Whenever  enemies  assail  and  difficulties  gather 
like  storm-clouds,  look  away  from  them  and  re- 
member the  Lord.  When  hemmed  in  on  every 
side,  be  sure  that  He  can  help  you  from  His  holy 
lieaven ;  remember  the  Lord.  When  heart  and 
flesh  fail,  and  you  do  not  know  what  to  do  for 
the  best,  be  sure  to  remember  the  Lord,  and  act 
as  in  His  most  holy  presence.  What  a  comfort 
and  strength  it  is  to  see  a  friend,  when  standing 
amid  a  crowd  of  adversaries  intent  on  your 
destruction,  and  to  know  that  he  will  act  and 
speak  for  you  !  But  remember  that  Jesus  is  always 
like  that. 

You  say  that  you  forget  so  soon  ;  that  you 
would  remember,  though  at  the  critical  moment 
you  are  betrayed  into  forgetfulness.  But  you 
must  recall  His  precious  promise,  that  the  Holy 
Spirit  will  bring  all  things  to  remembrance.  If 
only  you  will  trust  the  difficulty  into  His  hands, 
you  will  find  that  He  will  gladly  undertake  it ; 
and  as  long  as  you  leave  it  with  Him,  you  will 
hear  His  voice  rising  in  your  heart,  and  saying, 
**  Remember  the  Lord." 

«'  Watch  with  me,  Jesus,  in  my  loneliness, 
Though  others  say  me  Nay,  yet  say  Thou,  Yes; 
Though  others  pass  me  by,  stop  Thou  to  bless," 

181 


So  did  not  /,  because  of  the  fear  of  God. 

Neh.  V.  75. 

THESE  were  gi^at  words.  Nehemiah  had  a 
perfect  right  to  take  this  money.  Not  a  word 
could  be  said  even  by  his  critics,  if  he  did.  He 
was  doing  a  priceless  work,  and  might  justly 
claim  his  maintenance.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
people  were  very  poor,  and  he  would  have  a 
larger  influence  over  them  if  he  were  prepared  to 
stand  on  their  level,  and  to  share  with  them.  It 
was  just  so  that  the  Apostle  argued  in  i  Cor.  ix. 
And  from  both  we  learn  that  often  we  must 
forego  our  evident  rights  and  liberties  in  order  to 
influence  others  for  Christ.  Do  not  always  stand 
on  your  rights ;  but  live  for  others,  making  any 
sacrifice  in  order  to  save  some — even  as  Christ 
loved  us,  and  gave  Himself  for  us. 

If  Nehemiah  did  so  much  for  the  holy  fear  of 
God,  what  ought  not  we  to  do  for  love?  Love  is 
more  inexorable  than  law.  Its  exactions  are  more 
stringent  and  searching.  Are  we  doing  as  much 
for  love  of  Jesus  as  generations  before  did  simply 
on  the  score  of  duty?  It  is  much  to  be  ques- 
tioned if  Jesus  does  not  get  less,  of  outward 
service  at  least,  out  of  his  followers,  than  Ma- 
homet or  Buddha  does.  But  what  He  does  get 
is  infinitely  sweet  to  Him,  in  so  far  as  love 
prompts  it. 

All  around  yon  people  are  doing  things  that 
they  say  are  perfectly  legitimate ;  they  call  you 
narrow  and  bigoted  because  you  do  not  join  with 
them  ;  they  are  always  arguing  with  you  to  prove 
you  are  wrong.  But  your  supreme  law  is  your 
attitude  to  your  Master.  "I  cannot  do  other- 
wise for  the  love  of  Jesus." 

'^  Not  /,  because  of  the  fear  of  God.*' 

'*  Not  /,  but  the  grace  of  God  that  was  with 
7?ie.'' 

"  Not  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me.'' 

182 


/  am  doing  a  great  workf  so  that  I  cannot  come 
down.  Neh.  vi.  J. 

IT  was  a  sublime  answer.  Below  was  the 
Plain  of  Ono,  where  Nehemiah's  foes  awaited 
him.  Let  him  once  descend  into  it  and  he 
would  become  their  easy  prey ;  but  he  withstood 
their  fourfold  solicitation  by  considering  the 
greatness  of  the  work  he  was  doing  and  the  re- 
sponsible position  he  was  called  to  fill.  Other- 
worldliness  is  the  best  cure  for  worldliness.  Those 
whose  affections  are  set  on  things  above  will  have 
no  difficulty  in  refusing  the  appeals  of  sense.  Get 
your  heart  and  hands  deeply  engaged  in  the 
great  work  of  building  God's  Temple,  and  you 
will  be  proof  to  the  most  flattering  proposals  ever 
made  by  Madam  Bubble. 

Oh,  children  of  the  Great  King,  let  us  pray 
that  we  may  know  the  grandeur  of  our  position 
before  Him  ;  the  high  calling  with  which  we  have 
been  called  ;  the  vast  responsibilities  with  which 
we  are  entrusted  ;  the  great  work  of  cooperating 
with  God  in  erecting  the  city  of  God.  Heirs  of 
God  and  joint-heirs  with  Christ !  Called  to  sit 
with  Christ  in  the  Heavenlies  !  Risen,  ascended, 
crowned  in  Him  !  Sitting  with  Christ,  far  above 
all  principality  and  power !  How  can  we  go 
down — down  to  the  world  that  rejected  Him ; 
down  to  the  level  of  the  first  Adam,  from  which, 
at  so  great  cost,  we  have  been  raised ;  down  to 
the  quarry  from  which  we  were  hewn,  and  the 
hole  of  the  pit  whence  we  were  digged  !  No,  it 
cannot  be ;  and  as  we  make  our  choice,  let  us 
look  to  the  living  and  ascended  Clirist  to  make  it 
good.  Put  your  will  on  His  side,  and  expect  that 
the  energy  of  the  power  that  raised  Him  from 
the  dead  will  raise  and  maintain  you  in  union 
with  Him.  For  "  your  life  is  hid  with  Christ  in 
God." 


183 


//  was  not  found. 

Neh.  vii,  64. 

CERTAIN  claimed  the  maintenance  of  the 
priests,  and  were  challenged  to  show  their  name 
in  the  register  of  the  priestly  line.  In  all  likeli- 
hood they  were  descended  from  the  sons  of 
Aaron,  but  through  marriage  outside  the  priestly 
clan,  and  through  the  fact  also  of  the  name  of 
the  mother's  father  being  adopted,  their  names 
were  not  reckoned  in  the  priestly  genealogy; 
consequently,  their  claim  for  priestly  maintenance 
and  service  could  not  be  established. 

Is  there  not  something  like  this  still?  Men, 
who  were  called  to  be  God's  priests,  drop  out  of 
the  register  of  those  who  serve  before  Him.  It 
may  be  they  are  not  sure  of  their  genealogy,  and 
have  lost  the  assurance  of  sonship;  their  spirit  is 
no  longer  filled  with  the  blessed  co-witness  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  God  is  afar  from  them,  and,  being 
out  of  harmony  with  Him,  they  are  out  of  sym- 
pathy with  their  fellows.  They  are,  therefore, 
rightly  put  out  of  the  priesthood. 

Now  trace  this  matter  back  to  its  beginning. 
As  likely  as  not  you  will  find  it  originated  in 
some  worldly  alliance.  He  that  will  be  a  friend 
of  the  world  is  necessarily  an  enemy  with  God. 
For  a  mess  of  pottage  Esau  loses  his  birthright. 

But  all  this  can  be  put  right.  There  has  arisen 
a  Priest,  who  holds  the  Urim  and  Thummim  in 
His  hand ;  God's  own  Priest  after  the  order  of 
Melchizedek.  "  Wherefore  it  behoved  Him  in 
all  things  to  be  made  like  unto  His  brethren,  that 
He  might  be  a  merciful  and  faithful  High  Priest 
in  things  pertaining  to  God."  He  waits  to  rein- 
state the  erring  soul,  restore  it  to  the  priestly  of- 
fice, and  give  it  priestly  food  and  maintenance. 


184 


The  joy  of  the  Lord  is  your  strength. 

Neh.  via.  lo. 

"  THE  sad  heart  tires  in  a  mile,"  is  a  frequent 
proverb.  What  a  difference  there  is  between  the 
energy  of  the  healthy,  joyous  licart  and  the  forced 
activity  of  the  morbid  and  depressed  one  !  The 
one  leaps  to  its  task,  the  other  creeps  to  it.  The 
one  discovers  its  meat  and  drink  in  self-sacrifice, 
the  other  limps,  and  stoops,  and  crawls.  If 
you  want  to  be  strong  for  life's  work,  be  sure  to 
keep  a  glad  heart.  But,  be  equally  sure  to  be 
glad  with  the  joy  of  the  Lord.  There  is  a  coun- 
terfeit of  it  in  the  world,  of  which  we  must  be- 
ware— an  outward  merry-making,  jesting,  and 
mad  laughter,  which  hides  an  aching  and  miser- 
able heart.  Solomon  compares  the  joy  of  the 
world  to  the  crackling  of  thorns  under  a  pot, 
which  flare  up  with  great  speed,  but  burn  out 
before  the  water  in  the  pot  is  warm. 

Ours  must  be  the  joy  of  the  Lord.  It  begins 
with  the  assurance  of  forgiveness  and  acceptance 
in  the  Beloved.  It  is  nourished  in  trial  and  trib- 
ulation, which  veil  outward  sources  of  consola- 
tion, and  lead  us  to  rejoice  in  God  through  our 
Lord  Jesus.  It  is  independent  of  circumstances, 
so  that  its  possessors  can  sing  in  the  stocks.  It 
lives  not  in  the  gifts  of  God,  but  in  God  Him- 
self. It  is  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit,  who  begets  in 
us  love,  joy,  peace,  long-suffering.  Get  the  Lord 
Himself  to  fill  your  soul,  and  joy  will  be  as 
natural  as  the  murmur  of  a  brook  to  its  flow. 

And  such  joy  will  always  reveal  itself  to  others. 
You  will  desire  to  send  portions  to  those  for 
whom  nothing  is  prepared.  Your  joy  will  be 
contagious;  it  will  shed  its  kindly  light  on  sad 
and  weary  hearts.  As  Rutherford  said,  we  have 
a  new  heaven  in  the  heaven  of  every  soul  we 
bring  there. 


185 


The  seed  of  Israel  separated  themselves. 

Neh.  ix.  2. 

THIS  is  the  beginning  of  the  true  life.  Turn 
to  the  story  of  creation,  and  you  learn,  first,  that 
God  divided  the  light  from  the  darkness ;  next, 
the  waters  of  the  clouds  from  those  on  the  earth ; 
and  next,  the  seas  from  the  land.  It  was  only 
thus  that  He  could  effect  His  purpose  of  substi- 
tuting kosmos  for  chaos.  So,  in  the  development 
of  the  inner  life,  there  must  be  separation  and 
judgment ;  the  discrimination  of  the  false  from 
the  true,  the  evil  from  the  good.  "Separate 
Me  ...  for  the  work  whereunto  I  have  called 
them." 

When  God  put  His  hand  to  man's  highest  cul- 
ture, He  separated  Shem  from  his  brethren; 
Terah's  house  from  other  kindred  clans;  and 
Abraham  from  his  people.  What  weight  this 
gave  to  those  solemn  words,  '*I  am  the  Lord 
your  God,  which  have  separated  you  from  other 
people.  And  ye  shall  be  holy  unto  Me ;  for  I 
the  Lord  am  holy,  and  have  severed  you  from 
other  people  that  ye  should  be  Mine  "  (Lev.  xx. 
24,  26).  It  was  not  that  God  had  no  care  for 
the  great  world ;  but  that  He  desired  to  concen- 
trate His  attention  on  a  few,  that  when  they  had 
fully  caught  His  thought  they  might  pass  it  on  to 
mankind. 

This  accounts  for  the  cry  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
through  the  Apostle,  "  Wherefore  come  out  from 
among  them,  and  be  ye  separate,  and  touch  not 
the  unclean  thing."  We  must  be  separate  in  our 
practices,  cleansing  ourselves  from  all  filthiness 
of  the  flesh  and  spirit ;  in  our  pursuits,  going 
with  Christ  without  the  camp  ;  in  om pleasures  ; 
and  in  onr  alliances.  "  Follow  the  Christ — the 
King  !  Live  pure  !  Speak  true  !  Right  wrong  1 
Follow  the  King  !     Else,  wherefore  born  !  " 


186 


The  children  of  Israel  and  the  children  of  Levi 
shall  bring  the  offering.  Neh.  x.  jg. 

IT  was  about  this  time  that  Malachi  wrote  the 
memorable  words,  *  *  Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into 
my  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in  my 
house ;  and  prove  Me  now  herewith,  saith  the 
Lord,  if  I  will  not  pour  you  out  a  blessing." 
When  a  people  has  separated  itself  to  God,  there 
will  be  no  lack  in  its  house,  no  failure  in  its  sup- 
plies, no  lack  for  its  ministers.  So  with  the  in- 
dividual. All  they  that  had  separated  them- 
selves entered  into  an  oath  to  charge  themselves 
yearly  for  the  service  of  the  house  of  God.  Sep- 
aration is  the  negative  side  of  consecration. 

How  does  this  touch  you,  my  friend  ?  What 
proportion  of  your  income  are  you  setting  apart 
for  the  service  of  God  ?  The  amount  that  a  man 
gives  in  proportion  to  his  income  is  a  sure  test  of 
the  genuineness  and  depth  of  his  religious  life. 
The  Jew  gave  about  a  third  of  his  yearly  income 
to  God  ;  do  we  come  up  to  this  standard  ?  Yet 
we  speak  of  the  Jews  with  contempt,  as  hard- 
fisted  and  miserly.  These  old  Jews  might  set  an 
example  to  us  newer  Christians.  How  often  we 
reverse  our  position  from  God's  ideal  1  He  puts 
us  over  His  estate  that  we  should  send  Him  all 
the  produce,  after  deducting  what  is  necessary 
for  our  maintenance,  and  that  of  our  families. 
But  we  engross  the  entire  proceeds  for  ourselves, 
sending  Him  an  odd  guinea,  or  half-crown, 
when  we  can  easily  spare  it.  Let  us  see  that  we 
give  at  least  a  fixed  proportion  of  our  income, 
and  as  much  more  as  we  can.  Do  not  forsake 
the  House  of  your  God  ;  so  shall  the  heavens  be 
opened  in  blessing.  "There  is  that  giveth  and 
yet  increaseth ;  there  is  that  withholdeth  more 
than  is  meet,  and  it  sendeth  to  poverty." 


187 


A  certain  portion  should  be  for  the  singers, 

Neh.  xi.  2j. 

IT  was  the  king's  command,  and  it  was  very 
right  and  sensible,  because  they  enlivened  and 
quickened  the  life  of  the  entire  community.  A 
mere  utilitarian  spirit  might  have  refused  to  main- 
tain them,  because  they  did  not  contribute  to  the 
handicrafts  of  the  community.  They  only  sang 
the  praises  of  God ;  but  they  fulfilled  a  very  im- 
portant part  in  the  life  of  the  city,  and  they  de- 
served the  portion  which  was  regularly  contrib- 
uted to  them. 

You  sometimes  feel  your  life  to  be  compara- 
tively useless.  You  can  only  say  a  kind  word  to 
those  who  are  doing  the  main  business  of  the 
world.  When  the  brothers  had  wrought  all  day 
at  the  clearing  for  the  farm,  their  sister  Hope 
sang  through  the  evening  hours  to  cheer  them 
and  drive  away  their  sense  of  fatigue.  That  was 
all  she  could  do ;  but  was  she  not  deserving  of 
maintenance  ?  You  can  only  sing  your  song  of 
hope,  and  keep  the  heart  of  the  toilers  sweet  and 
fresh.  You  can  only  get  inspiration  from  God's 
heart  and  pass  it  on.  You  can  do  little  but  learn 
to  detect,  and  translate  into  music  that  men  love, 
the  deep  undertones  of  God's  creation.  But  it  is 
well.     You  are  needed  in  God's  world. 

There  are  invalids,  who  lie  on  their  back 
through  weary  months  and  years,  that  are  the  in- 
spiration of  their  homes,  and  to  their  side  the 
elders  and  the  children  come  for  counsel  and 
comfort.  Sing  on,  ye  sweet  choristers,  that  alle- 
viate our  depressions  and  start  our  hearts  to  high 
endeavor.  Ye  that  by  night,  in  sleepless  hours, 
stand  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  praise  ye  the  Lord 
when  all  the  busy  life  of  men  is  hushed  !  The 
King  will  see  to  it  that  ye  do  not  miss  your  main- 
tenance, your  portion  day  by  day. 


188 


David,  the  man  of  God. 

Neh.  xii.  24,  j6,  J7,  ^j",  4b. 

HOW  long  the  influence  of  David  has  lingered 
over  the  world,  like  the  afterglow  of  a  sunset ! 
Mark  the  characteristic  in  him  which  laid  the 
foundation  of  his  supremacy  over  the  hearts  of  his 
countrymen.  He  was  preeminently  "a  man  of 
God."  Notwithstanding  his  terrible  fall,  his  peo- 
ple recognized  that  his  salient  characteristic  was 
Godward.     Would  you  be  one  of  God's  men  ? 

(i)  Give  all  to  God. — Too  many  live  lives  of 
piecemeal  consecration,  giving  a  bit  here  and  a 
bit  there,  but  never  all.  David  surrendered  him- 
self to  do  God's  will  utterly,  and  in  all,  and  so 
became  a  man  after  God's  own  heart.  With 
what  joy  God's  voice  seems  to  quiver,  as  He  says 
"I  have  found  David,  the  son  of  Jesse,  a  man 
after  Mine  own  heart,  who  shall  fulfill  all  My 
will"  (Acts  xiii.  22).  Without  reserve,  holding 
nothing  back,  yield  yourself  to  God,  to  be,  and 
do,  and  suffer  His  will,  whatever  it  may  be. 

(2)  Take  all  from  God. — "It  is  not  what  we 
give  to  Jesus,  but  what  we  take  from  Him,  that 
makes  us  strong,  helpful,  and  victorious  day  by 
day."  Accept  this  as  a  fact,  that  in  Jesus  God 
has  made  all  His  fullness  dwell.  There  is  noth- 
ing we  require,  for  life  or  godliness,  that  is  not 
stored  in  Him ;  but  the  terrible  loss  of  our  lives 
is  that  we  take  so  little.  We  have  ourselves  to 
blame  if  we  are  poor,  and  miserable,  and  blind, 
and  naked. 

(3)  Use  all  for  God. — It  sometimes  appears  as 
though  Christian  people  were  urged  to  yield  them- 
selves to  God,  only  that  their  lives  might  be  more 
comfortable.  But  the  supreme  and  final  end  in 
all  surrender  must  be  that  His  will  be  done,  His 
glory  promoted,  and  Himself,  magnified  whether 
in  life  or  death. 

189 


Remember  me^  O  my  God. 

Neh.  xiii.  14,  22, 31. 

THRICE  in  this  chapter  this  humble  man  asks 
to  be  remembered.  We  cannot  think  that  he  ex- 
pected to  purchase  God's  favor  because  of  his 
sacrifices  and  endeavors.  Of  this  he  was  already 
assured.  But  being  a  redeemed  soul,  he  desired 
that  his  works  might  come  up  in  remembrance 
before  God,  and  secure  a  reward.  There  is  no 
harm  in  keeping  the  eye  fixed  on  the  reward  for 
faithful  toil  in  the  Lord's  service.  It  was  a  con- 
stant incentive  in  the  life  of  the  great  Apostle 
that  he  might  so  run  as  to  obtain ;  so  finish  his 
work  that  he  might  win  the  crown. 

Note  the  three  departments  of  service  men- 
tioned in  this  chapter,  in  connection  with  which 
Nehemiah  breathed  this  petition.  He  had  turned 
all  Tobiah's  household  stuff  out  of  the  temple,  so 
that  the  whole  structure  should  be  given  up  to  the 
service  of  God.  He  had  secured  the  Sabbath 
from  desecration,  so  that  its  holy  rest  and  calm 
were  preserved  intact.  And  he  insisted  on  the 
purity  of  the  holy  seed  being  untainted  by  foreign 
alliances.  Consecration  to  God,  the  Rest  of  Faith 
in  the  inner  life,  and  the  separation  of  God's 
children  from  the  world,  are  the  counterparts  of 
these  in  our  own  time. 

Shall  we  not  humbly  set  ourselves  to  seek  them 
for  the  professing  Church  ?  Nehemiah  was  an 
ungifted,  simple-hearted  man,  but  he  was  able  to 
secure  them  as  the  instrument  and  channel  of 
God's  purposes.  Why  should  not  God  work 
through  us  for  the  same  ends.  But,  first,  let  us 
see  to  it  that  each  of  these  particulars  is  being 
realized  in  our  own  personal  character  and  life. 
Let  every  room  of  the  heart  be  for  God  ;  let  no 
voice  break  the  inner  peace.  Then  what  God 
has  done  for  us,  we  may  confidently  plead  as 
within  His  scheme  for  others. 

190 


That  every   man   should  hear  rule  in  his  own 
house.  Esther  i.  22. 

ONE  of  the  prerequisites  in  choosing  a  pre- 
siding officer  in  the  early  Church  was  that  he 
should  rule  well  his  own  house;  "for  if  a  man 
know  not  how  to  rule  his  own  house,  how  shall 
he  take  care  of  the  Church  of  God?"  (i  Tim. 
iii.  4,  5). 

When  a  man  bears  rule  as  husband  and  father 
in  the  love  of  God,  there  is  no  issue  of  com- 
mands which  conflict  with  primary  obligations ; 
rather  than  that,  his  authority  represents  the  Di- 
vine authority.  As  Christ  received  His  authority 
from  the  Father,  so  does  a  man  derive  and  re- 
ceive his  from  Christ;  and  in  the  recognition  of 
his  delegated  right  and  ability  to  lead,  the  entire 
household  becomes  well  ordered.  The  relaxation 
of  the  bonds  of  authority  and  government  in  our 
homes  is  one  of  the  saddest  symptoms  of  national 
decay,  as  it  is  among  the  predicted  signs  of  the 
end  (2  Tim.  iii.  2,  3). 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  you  must  show  your- 
self worthy  to  lead  and  rule  your  home.  Your 
character  must  be  such  as  to  command  respect. 
Those  whom  God  has  put  into  your  charge  re- 
quire that  you  do  not  use  your  authority  for 
selfish  or  capricious  ends.  Above  all,  love  is  the 
source  of  the  truest  authority.  We  count  noth- 
ing hard  or  irksome  that  we  do  for  those  we  love. 
Show  love,  and  you  will  win  love ;  and  on  love 
will  be  built  respect,  reverence,  and  obedience. 

One  of  the  most  eloquent  of  modern  Italians 
has  said  truly:  "You  can  only  obtain  the  exer- 
cise of  your  rights  by  deserving  them,  through 
your  own  activity,  and  your  own  spirit  of  love 
and  sacrifice  !  "  Christ's  golden  rule  holds  good 
in  every  phase  of  life — "In  all  things,  whatso- 
ever ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye 
even  so  to  them." 

191 


Hadassahy  that  is,  Esther. 

Esther  it.  7. 

THROUGH  this  one  girl-life  God  was  about  to 
save  His  people,  though  He  was  all  the  while  hid- 
den from  view.  The  peculiarity  of  this  book  is 
that  there  is  no  mention  of  the  name  of  God  ;  but 
there  is  no  book  in  the  Bible  more  full  of  the 
presence  and  working  of  God  for  His  own.  His 
name  is  clearly  in  the  water-mark  of  the  paper,  if 
it  do  not  appear  in  the  print. 

We  know  that  the  meshes  of  evil  plotting  were 
laid  for  the  hurt  of  Israel  long  before  the  fatal  de- 
cree was  made  for  the  destruction  of  the  entire 
nation ;  but  here  we  find  that  God  has  begun 
His  preparations  for  deliverance  long  before.  In 
the  beauty  of  Esther,  in  the  position  her  uncle 
held  at  court,  in  the  favor  she  won  with  the  king, 
in  the  discovery  through  Mordecai  of  the  plot 
against  the  king's  life,  there  are  the  materials  of 
a  great  and  Divine  deliverance.  God  was  clearly 
beforehand  to  the  devil.  The  angels  of  light 
were  on  the  ground  before  those  of  darkness  were 
marshalled. 

It  is  a  sweet  thought  to  carry  with  us  always : 
God  prepares  of  His  goodness  for  the  poor.  He 
prepares  the  good  work  in  which  we  are  to  walk, 
and  the  deliverances  by  which  He  will  succor  us 
in  the  hour  of  need.  Do  not  dread  the  foe,  be 
not  fearful  nor  dismayed,  as  he  draws  his  net 
around  thee ;  God  has  prepared  a  way  of  escape, 
so  that  thou  shalt  be  able  to  bear  it.  In  the 
meanwhile,  rest  in  the  Lord,  and  wait  patiently 
for  Him  ;  trust  in  the  Lord  ;  wait  for  the  Lord  ; 
be  silent  to  the  Lord.  He  is  more  farseeing,  His 
plans  more  far-reaching.  His  help  more  certain, 
than  all  the  stratagems  of  evil.  God  laughs  at 
them.  Into  the  pit  they  have  dug,  thine  enemies 
shall  fall. 


192 


But  Mordecai  bowed  not. 

Esther  Hi.  2. 

THERE  was  stern  stuff  in  this  old  Jew.  He 
was  not  going  to  prostrate  himself  before  one  so 
haughty  and  so  depraved  as  Haman,  albeit  that 
he  was  the  king's  favorite.  To  be  the  only  one 
in  a  city  office  that  does  not  laugh  at  the  ques- 
tionable story ;  to  stand  alone  on  shipboard 
against  the  gambling  mania;  to  refuse  to  counte- 
nance cleverness  which  is  divorced  from  clean- 
ness, and  genius  which  is  apart  from  goodness — 
this  is  to  do  as  Mordecai  did  in  the  gate  of  the 
king's  palace. 

Only  God  can  give  this  power,  since  of  our- 
selves we  are  as  reeds  shaken  by  the  wind.  Sooner 
might  a  single  ear  of  wheat  resist  the  breeze  that 
bends  all  its  companions  in  the  same  direction, 
than  we  stand  alone,  whilst  all  our  associates  bow, 
unless  God  Himself  enable  us.  But  God  is  pre- 
pared to  enable  us.  Listen:  "  I  will  strengthen 
thee ;  yea,  I  will  help  thee  ;  yea,  I  will  uphold 
thee  with  the  right  hand  of  My  righteousness." 
But  the  mistake  we  are  so  apt  to  make  is  to  brace 
ourselves  up  by  resolution  and  firm  determination, 
in  anticipation  of  some  impending  struggle.  To 
do  this  is  to  fail.  Live  in  Christ,  look  up  into 
His  face,  derive  from  Him  strength  for  the  mo- 
ment and  at  the  moment ;  and  often  wrap  about 
thee  that  exceeding  great  and  precious  promise, 
"  I  will  make  him  to  become  a  pillar  in  the  tem- 
ple of  my  God ;  and  he  shall  go  no  more  out ; 
and  I  will  write  on  him  the  name  of  my  God." 
Oh  to  stand  pillar-like  amid  men,  bearing  up  the 
temple  arch  of  truth,  and  inscribed  with  God's 
name,  whilst  the  crowds  go  and  come  on  the 
pavement  beneath  ! 

"  Greatly  begin  !  though  thou  have  time 
But  for  a  line,  be  that  sublime — 
Not  Failure,  but  low  aim,  is  Crime  !  " 

193 


JV/w  knoweth  whether  thou  art  come  to  the  King- 
dom for  such  a  time  as  this  ?  Esther  iv.  14. 

WHAT  grand  faith  was  here  1  Mordecai  was 
in  God's  secrets,  and  was  assured  that  deliverance 
and  enlargement  would  come  to  his  people  from 
some  quarter — if  not  from  Esther,  then  from  some 
other;  but  he  was  extremely  anxious  that  she 
should  not  miss  the  honor  of  being  her  people's 
emancipator.  Therefore  he  suggested  that  she 
had  come  to  her  high  position  for  this  very  pur- 
pose. 

We  none  of  us  know,  at  the  first,  God's  reasons 
for  bringing  us  into  positions  of  honor  and  trust. 
Why  is  that  young  girl  suddenly  made  mistress 
over  that  household  ?  Why  is  that  youth  taken 
from  the  ranks  of  the  working-people,  and  placed 
over  that  great  City  church  ?  Why  is  that  man 
put  forward  in  his  business,  so  that  he  is  the  head 
of  the  firm  in  which  he  served  as  an  office-boy  ? 
All  these  are  parts  of  the  Divine  plan.  God  has 
brought  them  to  the  Kingdom  that  He  may  work 
out  through  them  some  great  purpose  of  salvation. 
They  have  the  option,  however,  to  serve  it  or 
not.  They  may  use  their  position  for  themselves, 
for  their  own  emolument  and  enjoyment,  they 
may  surround  themselves  with  strong  fortifications 
against  misfortune;  but  in  that  case  they  court 
destruction.  Their  position  and  wealth  may 
vanish  as  suddenly  as  it  came;  or  ill-health  and 
disaster  may  incapacitate  them. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  all  is  used  for  God, 
though  at  the  risk  of  perishing — for  it  seemed  to 
Esther  as  though  the  action  to  which  Mordecai 
urged  her  meant  that — the  issue  is  blessed.  Those 
that  love  their  lives  lose  them ;  those  that  are 
prepared  to  forfeit  them  keep  them.  The  wheat 
grain  which  is  buried  in  the  soil  bears  much  fruit. 


194 


The  King  held  out  to  Esther  the  golden  sceptre 
that  was  in  his  ha  fid.  Esther  v.  2. 

WHAT  a  beautiful  type  this  is  for  each  of  us 
in  our  approaches  to  God  ! 

For  the  repentatit  sinner. — You  may  have 
said  with  Esther,  "  I  will  go  into  the  king's  pres- 
ence, and  if  1  perish,  I  perish."  But  it  is  impos- 
sible for  you  to  perish.  None  ever  perished  at 
the  footstool  of  mercy.  God  is  faithful  to  His 
promises,  and  just  to  His  Son ;  and  He  can  do 
no  other — He  wants  to  do  no  other — than  for- 
give. As  you  stand  amid  the  throng  that  sur- 
rounds His  throne.  He  will  espy  you,  and  accept 
you  graciously,  because  of  the  God -Man  who  sits 
at  His  right  hand,  and  ever  lives  to  intercede.  In 
His  name  you  may  come  boldly  and  obtain  mercy. 

For  the  supplia7it. — You  have  a  great  boon  to 
ask  for  yourself,  or  another.  The  King's  court 
stands  open  ;  enter  and  lodge  your  petition.  He 
will  be  very  gracious  at  the  voice  of  your  cry: 
the  golden  sceptre  extended,  His  word  passed, 
that  He  will  answer  with  the  whole  resources  of 
His  kingdom.  The  answer  may  not  come  at 
once,  or  in  the  way  you  expected  ;  but  no  true 
suppliant  was  ever  turned  away  without  his  com- 
plaint or  cause  being  graciously  considered,  and 
in  the  best  way  met  and  adjusted. 

For  the  Christian  worker. — Surely  Esther 
represents  a  Paul  prepared  to  be  himself  accursed, 
a  Luther,  a  Brainerd.  It  is  a  lovely  sight  when 
the  child  of  God  is  so  oppressed  with  the  burden 
of  other  souls  as  to  sacrifice  all  else  in  order  to 
plead  their  cause.  Surely  such  find  favor  with 
God  ;  they  are  kindred  spirits  with  His  own,  and 
He  bids  them  share  His  throne.  ^God  will  do 
anything  for  those  who  are  consumed  by  His  own 
redemptive  purpose. 

195 


As  thou  hast  said^  do  even  so  to  Mordecai  the 
Jew.  Esther  vi.  lo. 

HERE  indeed  was  a  turning  of  the  tables  ! 
Haman  doing  honor  to  the  humble  Jew,  who  re- 
fused to  do  honor  to  himself.  Surely  that  day 
the  old  refrain  must  have  rung  through  Mordecai's 
heart: — "He  raiseth  up  the  poor  out  of  the 
dust,  and  lifteth  up  the  beggar  from  the  dunghill, 
to  set  them  among  princes,  and  to  make  them  in- 
herit the  throne  of  glory  :  for  the  pillars  of  the 
earth  are  the  Lord's."  And  there  was  an  an- 
ticipation of  yet  other  words  : — "  For  thou  hast  a 
little  strength,  and  hast  kept  My  word,  and  hast 
not  denied  My  name :  behold,  I  will  make  them 
come  and  worship  before  thy  feet,  and  to  know 
that  I  have  loved  thee." 

How  evidently  God  was  working  for  His  child. 
The  gallows,  indeed,  was  being  prepared,  but  it 
would  be  used  for  Haman;  whilst  the  triumph 
that  Haman  thought  to  be  preparing  for  himself 
was  to  be  used  for  Mordecai. 

This  is  not  an  isolated  case.  Any  one  who  has 
lived  a  few  years  in  the  world  and  has  observed 
the  ways  of  God  could  duplicate  it  with  instances 
that  have  come  under  his  own  notice.  Dr. 
Gordon  told  us  once  of  a  church  in  Boston  that 
would  not  admit  colored  people ;  and  after  a  few 
years  it  broke  up,  and  the  edifice  is  now  occupied 
by  a  flourishing  colored  church. 

Trust  on,  beloved  friend,  amid  scorn,  hate,  and 
threatening  death.  So  long  as  thy  cause  is  God's, 
it  must  prevail.  He  will  vindicate  thee.  Them 
that  honor  Him  He  will  honor ;  whilst  those  that 
despise  Him  shall  be  lightly  esteemed. 

"  Though  the  mills  of  God  grind  slowly, 
Yet  they  grind  exceeding  small ; 
Though  with  patience  He  stands  waiting, 
With  exactness  grinds  He  all." 


196 


What  is  thy  petition,  atid  it  shall  be  granted  theg  * 
and  what  is  thy  request  ?  Esther 


■  Vll. 


AMID  the  sensual  conceptions  of  marriage  that 
obtained  in  this  heathen  empire  there  was  doubt- 
less a  consciousness  in  the  king's  breast  of  the 
essential  unity  between  himself  and  his  beautiful 
queen.  She  was  his  better  self,  and  in  her  plead- 
ing he  heard  the  voice  of  his  own  higher  nature. 
To  nothing  less  than  this  could  he  have  made  so 
far-reaching  a  promise.  It  was  not  so  much 
Ahasuerus  pledging  himself  to  Esther,  as  Ahasu- 
erus,  Jhe  king,  awakening  to  the  appeal  of  a 
nobler  Ahasuerus,  for  the  most  part  buried. 
Such  is  the  power  of  a  pure  and  noble  character 
awakening  a  nobler  life.  Will  you  try  by  your 
unselfishness  and  purity  to  awaken  those  around 
you  to  see  and  follow  an  ideal,  which  shall 
presently  assume  the  form  of  the  living  Christ? 

In  these  words  of  the  king  we  are  reminded 
that  God  is  willing  to  do  beyond  what  we  ask  or 
think.  Not  to  the  half  of  His  kingdom,  but  to 
the  whole  extent  of  it,  has  God  pledged  Him- 
self, "according  to  the  power  that  worketh  in 
us."  But  our  prayer  must  be  in  the  name,  or 
nature,  of  Christ;  that  is,  the  nature  of  Christ 
must  pray  in  us,  and  God  must  recognize  Him- 
self come  back  through  the  circle  of  our  inter- 
cession to  Himself.  The  Spirit  must  make  inter- 
cession in  us,  according  to  the  will  of  God. 
When  the  unselfish,  lovely,  and  holy  nature  of 
Jesus  pleads  in  us  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  there  is 
nothing  that  God  will  not  do  for  us,  even  to  the 
whole  of  His  kingdom. 

"If  ye  abide  in  Me,  and  My  words  abide  in 
you,  ye  shall  ask  what  ye  will,  and  it  shall  be 
done  unto  you." 

*  •  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the  Father  in  My 
name  He  will  give  it  you." 


197 


Sealed  with  the  king's  ring. 

Esther  viii.  8. 

IN  chap.  iii.  lo  the  king  took  the  ring  from 
his  hand,  and  gave  it  to  Haman.  It  is  evident 
that  he  had  resumed  it  from  his  chief  officer's 
finger  before  sending  him  to  execution.  It  was 
now  entrusted  to  Mordecai,  because  it  gave 
validity  to  the  documents  that  proclaimed  liberty 
to  the  Jews.  Notice  those  words :  "  The  writing 
which  is  written  in  the  king's  name,  and  sealed 
with  the  king's  seal,  no  man  may  reverse,"  and 
apply  them  to  that  sealing  with  the  Holy  Ghost, 
of  which  we  read  so  often  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment. 

On  the  molten  wax  the  ring,  with  its  royal 
device,  or  perhaps  the  cutting  of  the  royal  pro- 
file, was  pressed,  giving  sanction,  validity,  and 
irreversibleness ;  so  on  the  tender  heart  of  the  be- 
liever in  Christ,  the  Holy  Spirit  impresses  the 
likeness  of  Jesus.  The  seal  does  not  leave  an 
impression  of  itself,  but  of  the  sovereign  ;  and 
the  Holy  Spirit  reveals  not  Himself,  but  Christ 
Jesus  the  Lord,  and  aims  only  to  leave  the  mark 
and  superscription  of  Christ  on  the  character. 
The  word  character  is  used  in  Hebrews  i.  3  (see 
Greek).  How  wonderful,  that  as  the  image  or 
character  of  the  Father  was  impressed  on  Christ, 
so  the  Saviour's  image  and  character  are  im- 
pressed on  us !  **  Him  hath  God  the  Father 
sealed,"  says  the  evangelist.  "Grieve  not  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  God,  by  whom  ye  were  sealed," 
says  the  Apostle. 

This  sealing  us  with  the  likeness  of  Jesus  is 
God's  attestation.  It  is  His  witness  that  we  are 
born  from  above,  and  are  become  His  sons  and 
daughters.  It  is  God's  sign  manual  of  His  inten- 
tion and  decree  that  we  should  inherit  an  irre- 
versible portion ;  and  when  God  has  once 
passed  and  sealed  it,  neither  man  nor  devil  can 
reverse  it. 

198 


The  Jews  had  rule  over  them  that  hated  them, 

Esther  ix.  i. 

YES,  my  reader,  a  similar  reversal  awaits  us  in 
the  near  future  !  Now,  the  god  of  this  world  and 
his  followers  bear  rule  over  us,  and  work  their 
way  with  the  servants  of  God.  They  butcher 
them  like  sheep,  and  scatter  the  ashes  of  their 
homes  to  the  winds;  and  sometimes  it  seems  as 
though  God  had  forgotten  to  avenge  the  cause  of 
His  saints.  But  the  hour  is  coming  when  the 
Almighty  will  arise  on  our  behalf;  and  to  him 
who  has  patiently  kept  His  works  unto  the  end, 
He  will  give  authority  over  the  nations.  Listen 
to  these  great  words  :  "  Behold,  I  give  of  the 
synagogue  of  Satan,  of  them  which  say  they  are 
Jews,  and  they  are  not,  but  do  lie ;  behold,  I  will 
make  them  to  come  and  worship  before  thy  feet, 
and  to  know  that  I  have  loved  thee."  Words 
more  applicable  to  the  case  of  the  Jews  in  the 
days  of  Mordecai,  and  to  the  history  of  the 
Church,  it  would  be  impossible  to  find. 

But  mark  a  notable  distinction.  In  the  case 
of  the  enemies  of  the  Jewish  people,  there  was  no 
quarter.  Destruction  and  death  were  meted  to 
those  who  had  breathed  out  persecution  and 
slaughter.  But  in  the  case  of  Christ  and  His 
Church,  power  is  viewed  only  as  an  opportunity 
of  securing  salvation  and  life.  The  Saviour  said, 
after  His  resurrection,  "All  power  is  given  unto 
Me  in  heaven  and  on  earth  ;  go  ye,  therefore,  and 
make  disciples  of  all  the  nations,  baptizing  them 
into  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and 
of  the  Holy  Ghost :  and  lo,  I  am  with  you 
alway."  And  the  Church  says,  as  through 
suffering  she  passes  to  the  right  hand  of  power, 
"  Lay  not  this  sin  to  their  charge ;  but  out  of  our 
persecutors  raise  apostles  to  carry  the  Gospel  to 
the  confines  of  the  earth." 


199 


Seeking  the  good  of  his  people,  and  speaking  peace 
to  all  his  seed.  Esther  x.  j  (r,  v.). 

THIS  epitaph  on  the  life  of  a  simple-minded, 
true-hearted  man,  might  be  yours  also.  Why 
should  you  not  from  this  moment  adopt  these 
twin  characteristics?  Go  about  the  world  j^^/^- 
ing  the  good  of  people.  It  does  not  always  mean 
that  you  should  give  them  a  tract,  or  a  little 
book.  It  is  much  easier  to  do  this  than  to  sacri- 
fice your  own  good  in  order  to  seek  theirs.  You 
may  be  quite  sure  that  some  little  act  of  self-sacri- 
fice or  thoughtfulness  for  a  weary  mother,  or  cry- 
ing child,  for  a  sick  friend,  or  for  some  person 
who  is  always  maligning  and  injuring  you,  would 
do  a  great  deal  in  the  way  of  preparing  an  en- 
trance for  the  Gospel  message.  It  is  thus  that 
the  genial  spring  loosens  the  earth  and  prepares 
the  way  for  the  germination  of  multitudinous  life. 
Count  the  day  lost  in  which  you  have  not  sought 
to  promote  the  good  of  some  one.  Adopt  as  your 
own  the  pious  Quaker's  motto,  *'  Do  all  the  good 
you  can,  to  all  the  people  you  can,  in  all  the  ways 
you  can." 

Speak  peace  to  people. — Soothe  agitated  and 
irritated  souls.  Throw  oil  on  troubled  waters. 
There  are  worried  and  anxious  hearts  all 
around  us;  a  word  of  sympathy  and  earnest 
prayer  witl>  them  will  often  remove  the  heavy 
load,  and  smooth  out  the  wrinkles  of  care.  Let 
the  law  of  kindness  be  on  your  lip.  Do  not  say 
sharp  or  unkind  things  of  the  absent,  or  allow 
your  lips  to  utter  words  that  will  lead  to  bitter- 
ness or  wrath.  Seek  peace  and  pursue  it.  And 
in  order  to  this,  let  the  peace  of  God  that  passeth 
all  understanding  keep  your  mind  and  heart. 

«'  Come,  my  belovM !     We  will  haste  and  go 
To  those  pale  faces  of  our  fellow  men ! 
Our  loving  hearts,  burning  with  summer-fire. 
Shall  cast  a  glow  upon  their  pallidness." 

^00 


Job  saidy  It  may  be  that  my  sons  have  sinned  and 
renounced  God  in  their  hearts.      Job  z.  j  (r,  v.). 

TIMES  of  festivity  are  always  full  of  tempta- 
tion. The  loins  are  relaxed,  the  girdle  of  the 
soul  is  loosed.  Amid  the  general  hilarity  and 
the  passing  of  the  merry  joke,  words  are  said  and 
thoughts  permitted  which  are  not  always  con- 
sistent with  the  character  of  God  and  His  glorious 
kingdom  and  service.  Job  was  not  wrong,  there- 
fore, in  supposing  that  his  children  might  have 
contracted  some  defiling  stain. 

It  is  necessary  for  some  of  us  to  move  in  so- 
ciety, and  to  attend  festive  gatherings.  As  the 
Lord  went  to  the  wedding  feast,  and  accepted 
Simon's  invitation,  so  must  we.  The  sphere  of 
our  life  lies  necessarily  in  the  world.  But  when 
we  are  entering  scenes  of  recreation  and  pleasure 
we  should  be  more  than  ever  careful  to  put  on 
our  armor,  and  by  previous  meditation  and  prayer 
prepare  ourselves  for  the  inevitable  temptation; 
and  when  it  is  all  over,  and  the  lights  are  down, 
we  should  quietly  review  our  behavior  under  the 
light  that  streams  from  the  Word  of  God.  If  we 
then  are  made  aware  of  frivolous  or  uncharitable 
words,  of  jealousy  because  others  have  outshone 
us,  or  of  pride  at  the  splendor  of  our  dress  and 
the  brilliance  of  our  talk,  we  must  confess  it,  and 
obtain  forgiveness  and  restoration. 

What  a  beautiful  example  is  furnished  by  Job 
to  Christian  parents  !  When  your  girls  are  going 
among  strangers,  and  your  boys  into  the  great 
ways  of  the  world,  and  you  are  unable  to  impose 
your  will  upon  them,  as  in  the  days  of  childhood, 
you  can  yet  pray  for  them,  casting  over  them  the 
shield  of  intercession,  with  strong  cryings  and 
tears.  They  are  beyond  your  reach ;  but  by 
faith  you  can  move  the  arm  of  God  on  their  be- 
half. 


201 


A  perfect  and  an  upright  man. 

Job  a.  3. 

EVEN  God  spoke  of  Job  as  perfect.  Not  that 
he  was  absolutely  so,  as  judged  by  the  perfect 
standard  of  eternity,  but  as  judged  by  the  stand- 
ard of  his  own  light  and  knowledge.  He  was 
living  up  to  all  the  requirenaents  of  God  and  man, 
so  far  as  he  understood  them.  His  whole  bei p.g 
was  open  and  obedient  to  the  Divine  impulses. 
So  far  as  he  knew  there  was  no  cause  of  contro- 
versy in  heart  or  life.  Probably  he  could  have 
adopted  the  words  of  the  Apostle,  "  I  know  noth- 
ing against  myself."  He  exercised  himself  to 
have  always  a  conscience  void  of  offence  toward 
God  and  man. 

Satan  suggested  that  his  goodness  was  pure 
selfishness  ;  that  it  paid  him  well  to  be  as  he  was, 
because  God  had  hedged  him  around  and  blessed 
his  substance.  This  malignant  suggestion  was  at 
once  dealt  with  by  the  Almighty  Vindicator  of 
the  saints.  It  was  as  if  God  said,  **I  give  thee 
permission  to  deprive  him  of  all  those  favoring 
conditions,  for  the  sake  of  which  thou  sayest  he 
is  bribed  to  goodness ;  and  it  shall  be  seen  that 
his  integrity  is  rooted  deep  down  in  the  work  of 
My  grace  upon  his  heart." 

But  the  book  goes  on  to  show  that  God  desired 
to  teach  Job  that  there  were  flaws  and  blemishes 
in  his  character  which  could  only  be  seen  by 
comparing  it  with  the  more  perfect  glory  of  His 
own  Divine  nature.  His  friends  sought  to  prove 
him  faulty,  and  failed ;  God  revealed  Himself, 
and  he  cried,  ''Behold,  I  am  vile,  and  abhor 
myself,  and  repent  in  dust  and  ashes." 

How  often  God  takes  away  our  consolations, 
that  we  may  only  love  Him  for  Himself;  and  re- 
veals our  sinfulness,  that  we  may  better  appreci- 
ate the  completeness  of  His  salvation  ! 


302 


Job  opened  his  mouth,  and  cursed  his  day. 

Job  Hi.  I. 

THAT  is  the  day  of  his  birth.  Probably  there 
have  been  hours  in  the  majority  of  lives  in  which 
men  have  wished  that  they  had  never  been  born. 
When  they  have  stood  beside  the  wreck  of  all 
earthly  hope,  or  entered  the  garden  of  the  grave, 
they  have  cried,  "  Why  died  I  not  from  the 
birth!  "  The  reason  for  this  is,  that  the  heart 
has  been  so  occupied  with  the  transient  and 
earthly,  that  it  has  lost  sight  of  the  unseen  and 
eternal;  and  in  finding  itself  deprived  of  the 
former,  it  has  thought  that  there  was  nothing  left 
to  live  for. 

One  of  the  greatest  tests  of  true  religion  is  in 
bearing  suffering.  At  such  a  time  we  are  apt,  if 
we  are  professing  Christians,  to  exert  a  certain 
constraint  over  ourselves,  and  bear  ourselves  he- 
roically. We  have  read  of  people  in  like  circum- 
stances who  have  not  shed  a  tear  or  uttered  a 
complaining  word,  because  they  have  braced 
themselves  to  a  Christian  stoicism.  "  I  am  sure 
you  cannot  find  fault  with  my  behavior,"  said 
one  such  to  me.  And  yet  beneath  the  correct 
exterior  there  may  be  the  pride  and  haughtiness 
of  an  altogether  unsubdued  self. 

There  is  a  more  excellent  way :  to  humble 
oneself  under  the  mighty  hand  of  God ;  to  search 
the  heart  for  any  dross  that  needs  to  be  burned 
out ;  to  resign  oneself  to  the  will  of  the  Father; 
to  endeavor  to  learn  the  lesson  in  the  black-let- 
tered book  ;  to  seek  to  manifest  the  specific  grace 
for  which  the  trial  calls ;  to  be  very  tender  and 
thoughtful  for  others;   to  live  deeper  down. 

«  Nearer,  my  God  to  Thee  ! — Nearer  to  Thee  ! 
E'en  though  it  be  a  cross  that  raiseth  me, 
Still  all  my  song  shall  be — Nearer,  my  God,  to  Thee ! 
Nearer  to  Thee  !  " 


203 


But  710W  it  is  come  unto  thecj  and  thou  faintest. 

Job  iv.  ^  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  much  easier  to  counsel  others  in  their 
trouble  than  to  bear  it  ourselves.  Full  often  the 
soul,  which  has  poured  floods  of  consolation  on 
others,  feels  sadly  in  need  of  a  touch,  a  voice,  a 
sympathizing  companion,  as  the  chill  waters  be- 
gin to  rise  toward  the  knees,and  the  shadow  of 
the  great  eclipse  falls  around.  The  fact  of  our 
having  consoled  so  many  others  seems  at  such  a 
moment  to  leave  us  the  more  solitary  and  lone- 
some. People  have  been  so  wont  to  be  helped 
by  us  that  they  hardly  dare  approach  us ;  besides, 
they  suppose  that  all  the  fund  of  comfort  from 
which  we  have  succored  others  must  be  now 
available  for  us.  What  can  they  say  that  we  have 
not  said  a  hundred  times?  and  if  we  have  said  it, 
of  course  we  must  know  all  about  it ;  but  they  do 
not  know  how  wistful  the  heart  is  to  hear  it  said 
to  us  with  the  accent  of  a  sympathetic  voice  ai-d 
the  touch  of  a  ministering  hand. 

Ah,  it  will  come  unto  thee  at  last.  The  pain 
and  sorrow  of  life  will  find  thee  out.  The  arrow 
will  at  last  fix  itself  quivering  in  thy  heart.  How 
wilt  thou  do  then?  Thou  wilt  faint  unless  thy 
words  have  sprung  from  a  living  experience  of 
the  love  and  presence  of  Jesus.  Thou  must  have 
a  better  hope  than  "  the  integrity  of  thy  ways," 
as  suggested  by  Eliphaz.  But  there  awaits  thee 
the  personal  fellowship  of  Jesus,  a  brother  born 
for  the  hour  of  trial.  He  is  the  never-failing 
Friend,  who  sticketh  closer  than  a  brother.  Put 
Him  and  His  will  and  His  choice  between  thee 
and  thy  sorrow,  whatever  it  may  be.  Hide  thee 
in  His  secret  place,  and  under  the  shadow  of  His 
wings  thou  shalt  enjoy  sweet  peace. 

**  Only  heaven  is  better  than  a  walk 

With  Christ  at  midnight  over  moonlit  seas." 

204 


He  maketh  sore,  and  btfideth  up :  he  ivou7idethj 
and  his  hands  make  whole.  Job  v.  i8. 

HAS  this  been  your  experience  lately?  Have 
you  been  made  sore  by  the  heavy  scourge  of  pain, 
and  wounded  by  the  nails  of  the  cross  ?  Do  not 
look  at  second  causes.  Men  may  have  been  the 
instruments,  but  God  is  the  Agent.  The  cup  has 
been  presented  by  a  Judas,  but  the  Father  per- 
mitted it ;  and  it  is  therefore  the  cup  that  the 
Father  hath  given  you  to  drink.  Shall  you  not 
drink  it  ?  How  much  He  must  love  you,  to  dare 
to  inflict  this  awful  discipline,  which  makes  your 
love  and  trust,  that  He  values  so  infinitely,  trem- 
ble in  the  scale  !  "  Despise  not  thou  the  chasten- 
ing of  the  Lord,  nor  faint  when  thou  art  rebuked 
of  Him  ;  for  whom  the  Lord  loveth  He  chasten- 
eth,  and  scourgeth  every  son  whom  He  re- 
ceiveth." 

But  do  not  look  back  on  what  you  have  suf- 
fered ;  look  on  and  up !  As  surely  as  He  has 
made  sore.  He  will  bind  up  ;  as  soon  as  He  has 
wounded.  His  hands  will  begin  to  make  whole. 
Consider  the  reparative  processes  of  nature.  So 
soon  as  the  unsightly  ruin  or  chasm  yawns,  na- 
ture begins  to  weave  her  rich  festoons,  to  cover 
it  with  moss  and  lichen ;  let  the  flesh  be  punc- 
tured or  lacerated,  the  blood  begins  to  pour  out 
the  protoplastic  matter  to  be  woven  into  a  new 
fabric.  So  when  the  heart  seems  bleeding  its 
life  away,  God  is  at  work  binding  up  and  heal- 
ing. Think  of  those  dear  and  tender  hands,  that 
fashioned  the  heavens,  and  touched  the  eyeballs 
of  the  blind,  as  laid  upon  you  to  make  you  whole. 
Trust  Him ;  He  loves  infinitely,  and  will  suffer 
none  that  trust  in  Him  to  be  desolate. 

We  must  be  careful,  however,  that  nothing  on 
our  part  shall  hinder  the  life  of  the  Son  of  God 
from  flowing  through  us,  as  the  sap  of  the  vine 
througli  every  branch. 

205 


As  a  brook f  as  the  channel  of  brooks  that  pass 
away.  Job  vi.  /j  (r.  v.). 

JOB  complains  of  his  three  friends.  He  was 
glad  when  they  first  came  to  his  side,  as  likely  to 
yield  him  comfort  in  his  sore  distress.  Instead 
of  this,  however,  they  began  probing  his  heart 
and  searching  his  life,  to  find  the  secret  sin  on 
account  of  which  his  heavy  troubles  had  befallen 
him.  Their  philosophy  was  at  fault.  They  held 
that  special  misfortune  is  always  the  result  of 
special  sin ;  and  since  there  was  nothing  in  Job's 
outward  conduct  to  account  for  his  awful  suffer- 
ings, they  felt  that  he  was  hiding  some  secret  de- 
fection, which  they  urged  him  to  confess.  Job 
felt  that  in  all  this  they  cruelly  misunderstood 
him,  and  compares  them  in  these  words  to  one 
of  the  desert  streams  that  are  choked  with  ice  and 
snow  in  the  time  of  the  winter  rains,  but  dwindle 
and  dry  up  on  the  first  approach  of  summer. 
And  when  the  weary  caravans  come  to  their 
banks,  lo,  their  bed  is  a  mere  heap  of  stones. 
'*  They  come  thither  and  are  confounded." 

Is  it  not  so  with  human  friendships  ?  We 
hoped  that  they  would  quench  the  raging  thirst 
of  our  souls;  this  hope  increases  when  they  draw 
nigh  us  in  days  of  sorrow ;  but  how  often  they 
fail  us — stones  for  bread,  scorpions  for  fish,  and 
scorching  pebbles  instead  of  water-brooks.  How 
great  a  contrast  to  the  love  and  friendship  of 
Jesus  !  Not  like  a  brook  that  dries  in  the  time 
of  drought,  but  like  a  well  of  water  springing  up 
within  the  heart  forever.  He  does  not  merely 
give  consolation  and  sympathy,  but  He  is  what 
He  gives.  He  imparts  Himself.  His  promise 
chases  away  our  fears  as  His  Spirit  reminds  us  of 
the  words,  "  I  will  never  leave  thee,  nor  forsake 
thee."  Nothing  gives  Him  greater  joy  than  to 
be  the  perfect  circle  of  which  earth's  friendships 
are  broken  arcs. 

206 


What  is  man  .   .   .  that  thou  shouldest  visit  him 
every  morning  ?  Job  vii.  17, 18. 

GOD  visits  us  with  mercy  every  morning.  Be- 
fore we  are  awake  He  is  at  work  in  the  world, 
baptizing  it  with  dew,  feeding  the  birds  and  wild 
things,  taking  pleasure  in  the  jasmine  and  helio- 
trope, the  honeysuckle,  and  the  rose ;  and  with 
all  His  care  for  His  world,  He  does  not  forget 
man,  whom  He  has  placed  there  to  be  its  tenant. 
There  is  no  life  so  mean  and  abject,  so  suffering 
and  wretched,  that  He  does  not  visit  in  order  to 
comfort  and  relieve  it.  No  heart  so  forlorn  that 
He  does  not  knock  at  the  door :  no  window  so 
selfishly  curtained  and  shuttered,  at  which  He 
does  not  tap.  ''Open  to  Me  !  "  the  heavenly 
visitor  entreats,  "my  love,  my  dove,  my 
spouse  !  "  Alas  for  us  !  that  we  keep  the  doors 
and  windows  closed  to  Him — as  the  poor  widow 
to  a  beneficent  friend,  who  called  to  relieve  her, 
but  she  mistook  him  for  the  rent-collector. 

But  probably  Job  meant  that  God  visits  us  in 
discipline,  training,  education.  He  is  the 
watcher  of  men ;  not  to  detect  their  failures,  but 
to  discover  opportunities  of  leading  them  on  to 
richer,  fuller  experiences  of  His  grace  and  life. 
Surely,  as  we  consider  all  the  time  and  pains 
which  God  has  expended  on  us,  we  too  may  cry, 
with  the  patriarch,  "What  is  man?"  Man  is 
more  than  we  guess,  else  God  would  never  take 
such  time  and  pains  with  him.  When  a  lapidary 
spends  years  over  a  single  diamond,  the  most 
careless  observer  begins  to  appraise  properly  its 
intrinsic  value. 

Every  morning  God  visits  thee,  with  holy 
thoughts  and  warnings,  with  miracles  and  para- 
bles, with  anticipations  and  forecasts — oh,  realize 
how  much  thou  art  to  Him  :  give  Him  love  for 
love,  thanks  and  loving  recognition,  a  child's 
welcome  and  trust. 

207 


If  thoji  wert  pure  and  upright,  surely  now  He 
would  awake  for  thee.  Job.  vUi.  6. 

SO  Bildad  spoke,  suggesting  that  Job  was  not 
pure  and  upright,  since  God  did  not  appear  to 
deliver  him.  The  premises  from  which  he  argued 
were  that  God  always  delivers  and  prospers  pure 
and  upright  men,  and  that  therefore,  if  a  man 
were  not  delivered  and  prospered,  lie  was  proved 
to  be  neither  pure  nor  upright.  The  fallacy  lay 
in  the  premiss.  It  is  not  universally  true  that 
God  delivers  His  saints  from  adverse  circum- 
stances, or  prospers  them  with  outward  good. 
There  have  been  in  all  ages  thousands  of  devoted 
servants  of  God  who  have  been  destitute,  afflicted, 
and  tormented  ;  and  there  are  thousands  of  such 
to-day  in  prisons,  in  hospital  wards,  in  every 
condition  of  privation  and  trial;  but  in  none  of 
these  cases  can  there  be  the  least  imputation  on 
the  love  and  righteousness  of  God,  nor  neces- 
sarily on  their  fidelity  and  goodness. 

God's  arrangements  for  us  are  not  governed  by 
the  superficial  philosophy  which  would  make  ma- 
terial prosperity  a  sign  of  His  favor,  and  adver- 
sity of  His  displeasure.  There  are  many  consid- 
erations beside.  Our  privations  in  the  outward 
strengthen  and  ripen  the  inward.  As  the  out- 
ward man  decays,  the  inward  is  renewed  day  by 
day.  We  have  to  learn  and  manifest  those  pas- 
sive virtues  which  can  only  mature  in  silence  and 
sorrow.  We  must  be  taught  to  be  largely  inde- 
pendent of  circumstances,  and  to  find  in  God 
Himself  the  springs  of  unfailing  supply.  We 
must  learn  to  carry  the  sentence  of  death  in  our- 
selves, that  we  may  not  trust  in  ourselves,  but  in 
the  living  God.  We  have  to  suffer  with  and  for 
others.  All  these  things  worketh  God  with  us  to 
make  us  partakers  of  His  holiness.  But  amid  all 
our  sorrows,  He  is  always  awake  for  us. 


d08 


Yet  wilt  thou  plunge  me  in  the  ditch y  and  mine 
own  clothes  shall  abhor  7ne.  Job  ix.  ji. 

WE  shall  never  get  beyond  the  need  of  using 
daily  the  Lord's  prayer.  He  has  bound  by  the 
conjunction  and  the  prayer  for  forgiveness  with 
that  for  daily  bread,  as  though  to  teach  us  that 
we  shall  need  the  one  as  long  as  we  need  the 
other.  At  the  end  of  the  best  day  that  we  ever 
spent,  when  we  are  not  aware  of  having  con- 
sciously sinned  in  act,  or  speech,  or  thought,  we 
shall  still  have  need  of  the  precious  blood.  We 
may  know  nothing  against  ourselves,  yet  we  shall 
not  be  thereby  justified  ;  because  He  that  judgeth 
us  is  our  holy  Lord,  and  the  standard  by  which 
we  are  judged  is  His  own  perfect  character.  A 
piece  of  cambric  looks  extremely  fine  to  the  eye, 
but  how  coarse  to  the  microscope  !  Sheep  look 
white  against  the  dark  ground  of  the  early  spring; 
but  how  dark  if  there  should  be  a  fall  of  snow  ! 
Our  characters  seem  stainless,  only  because  we 
compare  ourselves  with  ourselves,  or  with  others. 

But,  when  our  eyes  are  opened  to  see  God,  to 
behold  the  whiteness  of  the  great  white  throne, 
and  we  stand  in  the  searching  light  of  heaven, 
we  are  as  those  who  have  just  emerged  from  a 
ditch.  I  heard  the  other  day  of  a  woman  being 
proud  of  having  lived  without  sin  for  ten  years ! 
So  we  deceive  ourselves.  No,  at  the  best  we  are 
sinful  men  and  women,  needing  constant  cleans- 
ing; even  though  we  maybe  kept  from  known 
sin  by  the  grace  of  Christ.  It  was  at  an  advanced 
period  in  the  life  of  the  great  Apostle,  and  when 
he  lived  nearest  God,  that  he  realized  himself  to 
be  the  chief  of  sinners. 

«•  I  know  not  what  I  am,  but  only  know 

I  have  had  glimpses  tongue  may  never  speak : 
No  more  I  balance  human  joy  and  woe, 

But  think  of  my  transgressions,  and  am  meek." 


209 


The  land  of  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death. 

Job  X.  21. 

THIS  represented  the  higliest  thinking  of  that 
age  about  the  future.  There  were  gleams  now 
and  again  of  something  more;  but  they  were  fit- 
ful and  uncertain,  soon  overtaken  by  dark  and 
sad  forebodings.  How  different  to  our  happy 
condition,  for  whom  death  is  abolished,  whilst 
life  and  immortality  have  been  brought  to  light ! 
The  patriarch  called  the  present  life  Day,  and 
the  future  Night.  We  know  that  in  comparison 
the  present  is  Night,  and  the  future  Day.  ''The 
night  is  far  spent,  the  day  is  at  hand ;  let  us  put 
on  the  armor  of  light." 

For  us,  too,  there  is  something  better.  We 
wait  for  His  Son  from  heaven  ;  we  look  for  that 
blessed  hope,  the  glorious  appearing  of  our  great 
God  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  "As  the  waters 
of  the  sea  are  held  between  two  mighty  gravita- 
tions, the  moon  now  drawing  them  toward  itself, 
and  the  earth  drawing  them  back  again,  thus 
giving  the  ebbing  and  flowing  tide,  by  which  our 
earth  is  kept  clean  and  healthful,  so  must  the 
tides  of  the  soul's  affection  move  perpetually  be- 
tween the  cross  of  Christ  and  the  coming  of 
Christ,  influenced  now  by  the  power  of  memory 
and  now  by  the  power  of  hope."  It  is  said  of 
the  late  Dr.  Gordon :  * '  Hardly  a  sermon  was 
preached  without  allusion  to  the  glorious  appear- 
ing. Never  a  day  passed  in  which  he  did  not 
prepare  himself  for  it,  in  which  its  hastening  was 
not  sought  for  with  prayer."  '*  Yet  a  little  while 
S^Greek,  how  little!  how  little!]  and  He  that 
shall  come  will  come."  The  attitude  of  every 
believer  should  be  that  of  waiting :  with  loins 
girt  and  lamp  burning,  let  us  be  ready  to  meet 
our  Lord. 

"  The  Best  is  yet  to  be, 
The,  Last  for  which  the  First  was  made." 

210 


Canst  thou  by  searching  find  out  God? 

Job  xi.  7. 

THERE  is  but  one  answer  to  that  question. 
No  one  can.  The  very  angels  veil  their  faces 
before  the  insufferable  glory  of  His  face. 

The  firstborn  sons  of  light 
Desire  in  vain  His  depths  to  see; 
They  cannot  reach  the  mystery, 

The  length,  and  breadth,  and  height. 

Do  not  be  surprised,  then,  if  there  should  be 
matters  in  the  Bible,  in  your  own  life,  and  in  the 
Providential  government  of  the  world,  which  baffle 
your  thought.  Remember  you  are  only  a  little 
child  in  an  infant  class,  and  it  is  not  likely  that 
you  can  comprehend  the  whole  system  of  your 
instructor.  God  would  cease  to  be  God  to  us,  if 
we  by  searching  could  find  Him  out. 

But  though  we  cannot  find  out  God  by  the 
searching  of  the  intellect,  we  may  know  Him  by 
love.  "  He  that  loveth,  knoweth  God  ;  for  God 
is  Love."  There  is  a  way  of  knowing  God, 
which  is  hidden  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and 
revealed  to  babes.  Seek  to  be  strengthened  with 
might  by  His  Spirit  in  the  inner  man.  Let  Christ 
dwell  deep  in  your  heart  by  faith.  Take  care  to 
obey  all  His  commandments,  and  then  the  Holy 
God  will  come  into  you,  and  abide.  He  will 
give  you  Himself,  and  you  will  know  Him  as  a 
little  child  knows  its  parent,  whom  it  cannot  grasp 
with  its  mind,  but  loves  and  trusts  and  knows 
with  its  heart.  We  cannot  find  out  God  by  search- 
ing, but  we  can  by  loving. 

We  can  also  find  Him  in  the  character  and  life 
of  Jesus.  He  that  hath  seen  Him  hath  seen  the 
Father;  why  then  ask  to  be  shown  the  Father? 
"  What  is  Thy  name,  O  mystery  of  strength  and 
beauty?"  "  Shiloh,  Rest-Giver,"  is  the  deep 
response. 

211 


Doth  not  the  ear  try  words ^  even  as  the  palate 
taste th  its  meat.  JobxH.  //  (r.  v.). 

THERE  is  no  appeal  from  the  verdict  of  our 
palate.  We  know  in  a  moment  whether  a  sub- 
stance is  sweet  or  bitter,  palatable  or  disagreeable. 
Now,  what  the  taste  is  to  articles  of  diet,  that  the 
ear  is  to  words,  whether  of  God  or  man.  More 
especially  we  can  tell  in  a  moment  whether  the 
fire  of  inspiration  is  burning  in  them.  This  is 
the  test  which  Job  proposed  to  apply  to  the  words 
of  his  friends ;  and  it  would  be  well  for  all  of  us 
to  apply  the  same  test  to  Holy  Scripture. 

The  humble  student  of  the  Word  of  God  is 
sometimes  much  perplexed  and  cast  down  by  the 
assaults  which  are  made  on  it  by  scholars  and 
teachers,  who  do  not  scruple  to  question  the 
authorship  and  authority  of  large  tracts  of  Scrip- 
ture. We  cannot  vie  with  these  in  scholarship, 
but  the  humblest  may  apply  the  test  of  the  purged 
ear;  and  it  will  detect  a  certain  quality  in  the 
Bible  which  is  absent  everywhere  beside.  There 
is  a  tone  in  the  voice  of  Scripture,  which  the 
child  of  God  must  recognize.  This  is  the  in- 
teresting characteristic  in  the  quotations  made  in 
the  New  Testament  from  the  Old.  All  the 
writers  in  the  later  Revelation  detect  the  voice  of 
God  in  the  Old  ;  to  them,  it  is  the  Divine  utter- 
ance through  holy  lips.  Hearken,  they  cry, 
"the  Holy  Ghost  saith."  God  is  speaking  in 
the  prophets,  as  He  spake  in  His  Son. 

It  is  one  of  the  characteristics  of  Christ's  sheep 
that  they  know  His  voice,  and  follow  Him,  whilst 
they  flee  from  the  voice  of  strangers.  Ask  that 
the  Lord  may  touch  your  ears,  that  they  may 
discern  by  a  swift  intuition  the  voice  of  the  Good 
Shepherd  from  that  of  strangers;  and  for  grace  to 
follow  immediately  He  calls  you. 


212 


Though  He  slay  me,  yet  will  I  trust  in  Him. 

Job  xiii.  75. 

THIS  was  a  noble  expression,  which  has  been 
appropriated  by  thousands  in  every  subsequent 
age.  In  every  friendship  there  is  a  probation, 
during  which  we  narrowly  watch  the  actions  of 
another,  as  indicating  the  nature  of  his  soul;  but 
after  awhile  we  get  to  such  intimate  knowledge 
and  confidence,  that  we  read  and  know  his  inner 
secret.  We  have  passed  from  the  outer  court 
into  the  Holy  Place  of  fellowship.  We  seem 
familiar  with  every  nook  and  cranny  of  our 
friend's  nature.  And  then  it  is  comparatively 
unimportant  how  he  appears  to  act;  we  know 
him. 

So  it  is  in  respect  of  God.  At  first  we  know 
Him  through  the  testimony  of  others,  and  on  the 
evidence  of  Scripture;  but  as  time  passes,  with 
its  ever-deepening  experiences  of  what  God  is, 
with  those  opportunities  of  converse  that  arise 
during  years  of  prayer  and  communion,  we  get 
to  know  Him  as  He  is  and  to  trust  Him  implicitly. 
And  when  that  point  has  been  reached  and  passed, 
nothing  afterward  can  greatly  move  us.  Instead 
of  looking  at  God  from  the  standpoint  of  His 
acts,  we  look  at  His  dealings  with  us  and  all  men 
from  the  standpoint  of  His  heart.  Though  He 
put  us  on  the  altar,  as  Abraham  did  Isaac,  and 
take  the  knife  to  slay  us,  we  trust  Him.  If  we 
die,  it  is  to  pass  into  a  richer  life.  If  He  seem 
to  forget  and  forsake  us,  it  is  only  in  appearance. 
His  heart  is  yearning  over  us  more  than  ever. 
God  cannot  do  a  thing  which  is  not  perfectly  lov- 
ing and  wise  and  good.  Oh  to  know  Him 
thus  ! 

"  Leaving  the  final  issue  in  His  hands 
Whose  goodness  knows  no  change,  whose  love  is  sure, 
Who  sees,  foresees,  who  cannot  judge  amiss." 


213 


All  the  days  of  my  warfare  would  I  waity  till  my 
release  should  come.  Job  xiv.  14  (r.  v.). 

THE  Lord  Jesus  has  chosen  us  to  be  His  sol- 
diers. We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  great  campaign  : 
let  us  endure  hardness,  as  a  good  soldier  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  strive  above  all  things  to  please  Him 
(2  Tim.  ii.  4).  Amongst  other  things,  let  us  be 
sure  not  to  entangle  ourselves  in  the  affairs  of  this 
life.  What  purpose  could  a  soldier  serve  who 
insisted  on  taking  all  his  household  goods  with 
him  on  the  march  ! 

There  is  no  pause  in  the  warfare.  We  can 
never,  like  Gideon's  soldiers,  throw  ourselves  on 
the  bank  and  quaff  the  water  at  our  leisure. 
Every  bush  may  hide  a  sharp-shooter;  every 
brake  an  ambuscade.  It  becomes  us  to  watch  and 
pray  ;  to  keep  on  our  harness  of  armor ;  to  be  on 
the  alert  for  our  Captain's  voice.  We  wrestle 
not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against  the  hosts 
of  wicked  spirits  in  the  heavenly  places;  we  need 
to  be  strong  in  the  Lord,  and  in  the  power  of  His 
might,  and  to  take  unto  ourselves  the  whole  armor 
of  God,  that  we  may  be  able  to  withstand  in  the 
evil  day,  and  having  done  all  to  stand. 

But  the  release  will  come  at  last.  When  the 
soldier  has  fought  the  good  fight,  the  time  of  his 
departure  will  come,  and  he  will  go  in  to  receive 
the  crown  which  the  Lord,  the  righteous  Judge, 
shall  give  in  that  day.  "  Come,"  said  the  dying 
Havelock  to  his  son,  "and  see  how  a  Christian 
can  die."  Sometimes  it  demands  more  of  a  sol- 
dier's courage  to  wait  than  to  charge.  Remember 
that  long  waiting  on  tlie  field  at  Waterloo,  when 
the  day  passed  from  morning  to  evening.  If  you 
can  do  nothing  else,  7vait.  Be  steadfast,  immova- 
ble :  lying  still  to  suffer,  to  bear,  to  endure.  This  is 
fighting  of  the  noblest  sort. 


214 


Thou  restrainest  prayer  before  God. 

Job  XV,  4. 

JOB'S  friends  were  bent  on  discovering  the 
cause  of  his  sufferings  in  some  secret  failure  and 
declension.  This  is  why  Eliphaz  accused  him 
so  groundlessly.  They  did  not  know  of  those 
secret  habits  of  intercession  described  in  the  first 
chapter.  But  this  charge  is  eminently  true  of 
some  professing  Christians. 

They  restrain  private  prayer. — The  closet 
door  is  too  seldom  shut  behind  them,  or  it  is  kept 
shut  for  too  brief  a  period.  They  do  not  give 
themselves  time  to  get  into  the  mid-current  of  in- 
tercession and  be  borne  forward  by  it  whither  it 
will.  The  voice  of  the  Holy  Spirit  is  barely 
able  to  assert  itself  amid  the  hubbub  of  voices 
within.  They  are  so  taken  up  with  speaking  of 
the  Lord,  or  working  for  Him,  that  they  slur  over 
private  audiences  with  Himself. 

They  restrain  social  prayer. — Their  minister 
never  sees  them  in  the  gatherings  for  intercession 
on  behalf  of  the  work  of  the  Church  and  the 
salvation  of  the  lost.  They  forsake  the  assemb- 
ling of  themselves  with  the  saints.  Like  Thomas, 
they  are  absent  from  the  gathering  in  the  upper 
room,  and  miss  the  smile  of  the  Lord. 

They  restrain  family  prayer. — Surely  we 
ought  to  gather  at  least  once  a  day  around  the 
family  altar.  Where  Abraham  pitched  his  tent 
he  erected  the  altar.  A  prayerless  home  is  apt 
to  become  a  worldly  and  unhappy  one.  There 
is  no  such  keystone  to  the  arch  of  home-life  and 
home-love,  as  the  habit  of  family  worship. 

How  foolish,  how  short-sighted,  how  sinful,  it 
is  to  restrain  prayer  !  What  wonder  that  your 
soul  is  famished  when  you  fail  to  feed  it,  or  im- 
poverished when  you  neglect  intercourse  with 
heaven  ! 

215 


/  was  at  easCt  and  He  brake  me  asunder. 

Job  xvi.  12  (R.  v.). 

THE  other  day,  it  was  the  Lord's  Day  morn- 
ing, two  sparrows  fell  from  the  leads  of  my  church 
into  the  vestry,  which  has  a  lofty  glass  skylight. 
As  soon  as  they  had  recovered  from  their  astonish- 
ment at  finding  themselves  prisoners,  they  flew  up 
against  this  skylight  as  though  to  break  through 
it  to  the  open  heaven,  and  then  round  and  round 
the  room.  They  were  desperately  afraid  of  my- 
self and  the  verger,  whom  I  had  called,  not  real- 
izing that  we  were  as  anxious  as  they  to  get  them 
out  again  into  the  air.  The  only  thing  we  could 
do  to  help  them  was  to  keep  them  from  alighting 
to  rest ;  so  with  long  brooms  and  soft  missiles  we 
constantly  drove  them  from  every  cornice  and 
picture-frame  on  which  they  alighted,  till  they 
fell  exhausted,  and  with  panting  breasts,  to  the 
ground.  Then  we  captured  them  and  set  them 
free.  They  might  have  said  many  a  time,  in  the 
course  of  that  encounter,  "  We  were  at  ease,  and 
they  brake  us  asunder ;  they  also  set  up  for  their 
mark."  But  if  they  could  review  that  episode 
now,  they  would  doubtless  see  that  it  was  love 
which  forbade  them  to  rest  any  where  in  the  vestry, 
because  it  desired  to  give  them  their  fullest  liberty. 

So  with  Job.  God  would  not  allow  him  to 
rest  in  anything  short  of  the  best,  and  therefore 
He  broke  up  his  nest.  Is  not  this  the  key  to  His 
dealings  with  you  ?  Oh,  believe  that  behind  the 
perpetual  change  and  displacement  of  your  life 
God  is  leading  you  into  the  glorious  liberty  of  His 
children  ! 

"Therefore  to  whom  turn  I  but  Thee,  the  ineffable 
Name  ? 
Builder  and  Maker  Thou  of  houses  not  made  with  hands ! 
What  ?  have  fear  of  change  from  Thee  who  art  ever  the 
same  ? 
Doubt  that  Thy  power  can  fill  the  heart  that  Thy  power 
expands  ? 
There  shall  never  be  one  lost  good." 

216 


Yet  shall  the  righteous  hold  on  his  way. 

Job  xvii.  g  (R.  v.). 

WHEN  the  real  life  of  God  enters  the  soul,  it 
persists  there.  Genuine  religion  is  shown  by  its 
power  of  persistence.  Anything  short  of  a  God- 
given  faith  will  sooner  or  later  fail.  It  may  run 
well  for  a  time,  but  its  pace  will  inevitably  slacken 
till  it  comes  to  a  stand.  The  youths  faint  and 
are  weary,  and  the  young  men  utterly  fall.  The 
seed  sown  on  the  rock  springs  up  quickly,  and  as 
quickly  dies  down  and  perishes.  But  where  there 
is  the  rooting  and  grounding  in  God,  there  is  a  per- 
petuity and  persistence  which  outlives  all  storms 
and  survives  all  resistance. 

You  shall  hold  on  your  y^z.y  because  Jesus  holds 
you  in  His  strong  hand.  He  is  your  Shepherd  ; 
He  has  vanquished  all  your  foes,  and  you  shall 
never  perish. 

You  shall  hold  on  your  way  because  the  Father 
has  designed  through  you  to  glorify  His  Son;  and 
there  must  be  no  gaps  in  His  crown  where  jewels 
ought  to  be. 

You  shall  hold  on  your  way  because  the  Holy 
Spirit  has  deigned  to  make  you  His  residence  and 
home  ;  and  He  is  within  you  the  perennial  spring 
of  a  holy  life. 

It  is  said  that  there  was  once  a  debate  in 
heaven,  as  to  which  kind  of  life  needed  most  of 
God's  grace.  That  of  a  man  who  after  a  lifetime  of 
gross  sins  was  converted  at  the  eleventh  hour,  or 
of  a  man  that  for  his  whole  career  had  been  kept 
from  destruction.  And  finally  the  latter  was 
agreed  to  be  the  most  conspicuous  miracle.  And 
there  is  no  doubt  that  this  is  so.  Yet  for  this 
also  shall  God's  grace  avail :  and  He  shall  enable 
thee  to  hold  on  thy  way  till  heaven  open  to  thee. 


217 


The  king  of  terrors. 

Job  xviii.  14. 

SO  the  ancients  spoke  of  death.  They  were 
constantly  pursued  by  the  dread  of  the  unknown. 
Every  unpeopled  or  distant  spot  was  the  haunt 
and  dwelling-place  of  evil  and  dreadful  objects. 
But  the  grave,  and  the  world  beyond,  were  above 
all  terrible,  and  death  the  King  of  Terrors,  It  is 
difficult  for  us,  who  inherit  centuries  of  Christian 
teaching,  to  realize  how  dark  and  fearsome  was 
all  the  realm  that  lay  under  the  dominion  of 
death  and  the  grave.  What  a  shiver  in  those 
words,  King  of  Terrors  ! 

But  for  us  how  vast  the  contrast !  Jesus  has 
abolished  death,  and  brought  life  and  immortality 
to  light.  He  has  gone  through  the  grave,  and 
come  again  to  assure  us  that  it  is  the  back  door 
into  our  Father's  house,  with  its  many  mansions. 
At  His  girdle  hang  the  keys  of  death  and  Hades  ; 
none  can  shut  the  door  when  He  opens  it,  and 
none  open  when  He  keeps  it  shut.  He  was  Him- 
self dead ;  but  He  lives  forevermore,  and  comes 
to  the  side  of  each  dying  saint  to  escort  him 
through  the  valley  to  His  own  bright  abode. 

There  is  something  better.  In  the  case  of  im- 
mense numbers,  who  shall  be  alive  and  remain 
when  He  comes  again,  death  will  be  entirely 
evaded.  "  He  that  liveth  and  believeth  in  Him 
shall  never  die."  They  shall  be  caught  away  to 
meet  the  Lord  in  the  air.  Suddenly,  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye,  this  mortal  shall  put  on  im- 
mortality, this  corruptible  incorruption.  At  His 
coming  the  grave  shall  be  despoiled  of  its 
treasures,  and  death  shall  miss  its  expected  prey. 

"O  death,  where  is  thy  sting!  O  grave, 
where  is  thy  victory  !  Thanks  be  to  God  which 
giveth  us  the  victory  through  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ." 


218 


I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth. 

Job  xix.  2J. 

THOSE  words  express  the  deepest  and  most 
radiant  conviction  of  believing  hearts.  "He 
lives,  the  great  Redeemer  lives  !  "  Man  did  his 
worst;  the  nail,  the  cross,  the  spear,  were  bitter; 
but  He  liveth  !  Death  stood  over  Him  as  a 
vanquished  foe;  but  He  liveth!  Captain 
Sepulchre  and  his  henchman  Corruption  held 
earnest  colloquy  together  about  the  best  method 
of  detaining  Him ;  but  He  liveth  !  He  ever  liveth  : 
and  because  He  continueth  ever  He  hath  an  un- 
changeable priesthood. 

But  it  is  not  probable  that  His  words  meant  all 
this  to  Job.  The  word  translated  "Redeemer" 
is  Goel — the  nearest  kinsman,  sworn  to  avenge 
the  wrongs  of  blood  relations.  This  conception 
of  the  kinsman  avenger  has  been  always  in  vogue 
in  the  East,  where  the  populations  are  scattered 
and  migratory,  and  our  system  of  law  impossible. 
Beyond  the  heavens  Job  thought  there  lived  a 
Kinsman,  who  saw  all  his  sufferings,  and  pitied, 
and  would  one  day  appear  on  earth  to  vindicate 
his  innocence  and  avenge  his  wrongs.  He  was 
content  to  leave  the  case  with  Him,  sure  that  He 
would  not  fail,  as  his  friends  had  done. 

Beyond  the  sorrows  and  anguish  of  time  he 
should  yet  see  God ;  and  he  longed  to  see  Him, 
that  he  might  learn  the  secret  purpose,  which  ex- 
plained the  sorrow  of  his  lot.  He  had  no  dread 
of  that  momentous  event,  since  his  Goel  would  be 
there  to  stand  beside  him. 

"  Sudden  the  Worst  turns  the  Best  to  the  brave. 

The  black  minute's  at  end  ! — 
And  the  Elements'  rage,  the  fiend  voices  that  rave, 

Shall  dwindle,  shall  blend, 
Shall  change,  shall  become, — first  a  Peace  out  of  Pain, 

Then  a  Light,  then  thy  breast." 


219 


This  is  the  portion  of  a  wicked  man  from  God. 

Job  XX.  2g. 

REPEATEDLY  in  reading  this  book  we  are 
reminded  of  the  strong  convictions  entertained  by 
thoughtful  men  among  these  Eastern  peoples,  of 
the  sure  connection  between  wrongdoing  and  its 
bitter  penalty.  The  friends  of  the  sufferer  ex- 
press their  opinions  in  cold-blooded  and  unfeel- 
ing words;  but  we  can  detect  their  intense  con- 
victions beneath  all — that  special  suffering  in- 
dicates the  presence  of  special  sin,  and  that  all 
wickedness  is  sooner  or  later  brought  to  light  and 
punished. 

We  are  less  able  to  follow  the  track  of  God's 
providences  in  these  crowded,  hurrying  days;  but 
there  can  be  little  doubt  of  the  connection  be- 
tween wrongdoing  and  punishment.  The  law 
is  immutable.  As  a  man  soweth,  so  shall  he  also 
reap.  The  triumphing  of  the  wicked  is  short,  and 
the  joy  of  the  godless  but  for  a  moment.  He 
shall  disgorge  his  wealth  ;  he  shall  suck  the 
poison  of  asps  in  the  remorse  and  bitterness  of 
his  soul;  the  heavens  shall  reveal  his  iniquity ; 
and  his  descendants  shall  seek  favor  of  the  poor. 
These  things  are  still  to  be  seen  among  us,  in 
the  rise  and  fall  of  proud  men  and  their  families. 

Let  us  go  into  the  sanctuary  of  God,  and  con- 
sider their  latter  end  ;  and  as  we  contrast  it  with 
that  of  the  poorest  of  His  children,  we  shall  find 
no  reason  to  envy  them.  Even  though  no  human 
tribunal  sentence  them,  they  carry  the  harpoon 
in  their  heart,  and  sooner  or  later  it  will  bring 
them  to  a  certain  and  awful  doom.  It  cannot 
be  otherwise  whilst  God  is  God.  The  psalmist 
said  : 

"  I  have  seen  the  wicked  in  great  power, 
And  spreading  himself  like  a  green  bay  tree, 
Yet  he  passed  away,  and,  lo,  he  was  not." 

220 


Shall  any  teach  God  knowledge  ? 

Job  xxi.  22. 

WE  cannot  tell  God  anything  He  does  not 
know  already.  The  most  fervent  and  full  of  our 
prayers  simply  unfold  in  word  all  that  has  been 
patent  to  His  loving,  pitying  eye.  This  does  not 
make  prayer  needless ;  on  the  contrary,  it  incites 
to  prayer,  since  it  is  pleasant  to  talk  with  one 
who  knows  the  whole  case  perfectly  ;  and  it  is  a 
relief  to  feel  that  God's  answers  depend — not  on 
the  information  we  bring  Him,  or  even  on  the 
specific  requests  we  make,  but — on  His  infinite 
and  perfect  acquaintance  with  circumstances 
and  conditions  of  which  we  are  altogether  igno- 
rant. 

"  Your  Father  knoweth."  Quicker  than  light- 
ning is  His  notice  of  every  transition  in  your 
inner  life — of  your  downsittings  and  your  up- 
risings; of  every  thought  in  your  heart;  every 
word  on  your  tongue  ;  of  the  fretting  of  that  in- 
ward cross;  of  the  anguish  of  that  stake  in  your 
flesh ;  of  the  enemy  that,  like  a  sword  in  your 
bones,  reproaches  you  with  the  derisive  chal- 
lenge. *'Thou  compassest  my  path  and  my 
lying  down,  and  art  acquainted  with  all  my  ways. 
For  there  is  not  a  word  in  my  tongue,  but,  lo, 
O  Lord,  Thou  knovvest  it  altogether."  Yes, 
He  knows  it  all,  and  loves  you  better  than  you 
know. 

Do  not  presume  to  dictate  to  Him ;  do  not 
dare  to  say  that  some  other  way  would  be  better, 
some  other  lot  more  likely  to  develop  your  best 
self.  He  knows  every  track  by  which  to  bring 
sons  to  glory  ;  and  that  He  has  chosen  this  one  is 
a  positive  proof  that  it  is  llie  best,  the  one  most 
adapted  to  your  idiosyncrasies  and  needs.  His 
ways  are  higher  than  your  ways,  and  His 
thoughts  than  your  thoughts.  You  could  not 
teach  Him  knowledge,  or  increase  His  love — 
then  trust  both. 

221 


If  thou  return  to  the  Almighty. 

Job  xxii.  2j. 

THESE  words  introduce  a  most  exquisite 
picture  of  the  blessings  consequent  on  return  to 
God.  Tliey  do  not  fit  the  case  of  Job,  to  whom 
they  were  addressed,  because  he  had  not  left 
God;  and  they  sound  strange  as  coming  from 
the  mouth  of  Eliphaz.  Still  they  are  full  of 
sublime  truth. 

There  are  three  conditions. — We  must  retrace 
the  steps  of  our  backsliding  and  wandering  lives. 
We  must  put  away  unrighteousness  from  our 
home-life  and  business  engagements,  so  that  the 
tent  may  be  free  from  idols.  We  must  be  con- 
tent to  lay  our  most  treasured  possessions  in  the 
dust  at  God's  feet  for  Him  to  deal  with  as  He 
pleases. 

There  are  four  consequences. — Whatever  we 
give  up  for  God,  we  shall  find  again  in  Him ;  He 
shall  become  our  treasure.  Prayer  shall  have 
new  zest,  new  success;  be  full  of  delight ;  become 
the  interchange  of  face-to-face  fellowship.  There 
shall  be  more  certainty  and  permanence  in  our 
decisions  and  achievements.  Our  decrees  shall 
stand,  our  work  shall  last,  our  path  shall  be 
illumined  with  light.  Trouble  and  trial  shall  de- 
press us  for  only  a  brief  space,  like  the  passing  of 
an  Atlantic  breaker  over  a  lighthouse  rock,  whilst 
a  glad  relief  shall  always  follow  close  on  disaster. 

Let  us  ask  for  all  this  in  our  daily  prayer.  O 
God,  be  my  precious  silver ;  give  me  delight  in 
Thee ;  hear  my  prayers  ;  may  I  decree  what  Thou 
canst  establish ;  let  Thy  light  shine  on  my  ways  ; 
lift  77ie  up  above  all  my  depressions  and  fears — 
that  I  may  stretch  out  a  strong  hand  to  those  who 
are  in  trouble. 

"Oh  strengthen  me,  that  while  I  stand 
Firm  on  the  Rock,  and  strong  in  Thee, 
I  may  stretch  out  a  loving  hand 

To  wrestlers  with  the  troubled  sea." 

222 


Oh  that  I  knew  where  I  might  find  Him  ^  that  I 
might  come  eve?i  to  His  seat !  Job.  xxUi.  j. 

POOR  tempest-driven  man,  he  knew  not  that 
God  was  intimately  near,  nearer  than  breathing. 
There  was  no  need  for  him  to  go  forward  and 
backward,  on  the  right  hand  or  the  left.  The 
Lord  his  Gud  was  nigh  him,  even  in  his  heart; 
for  His  throie  was  pitched  there  on  the  sands  of 
the  desert,  between  Job  and  his  pitiless  accusers. 

Thou  needest  not  speak  like  this.  Thou 
knowest  where  to  find  Him ;  thou  canst  find  the 
way  to  His  seat.  He  is  to  be  found  in  Jesus, 
seated  on  the  mercy-seat;  in  that  room  where 
thou  sittest  reading  these  words;  in  that  railway 
train  or  store.  No  need  to  ascend  into  heaven, 
or  descend  into  the  abyss.  Thou  couldst  not 
be  nearer  God,  if  thou  wert  in  heaven.  True, 
the  obscuring  vail  shall  be  then  removed. 

«« And  without  a  screen, 
At  one  burst  shall  be  seen, 
The  Presence  in  which  we  have  ever  been" ; 

but  the  dropping  of  the  scales  from  our  eyes  will 
not  make  us  nearer  God  than  we  are  at  this  mo- 
ment. 

Now  go  to  His  seat,  just  in  front  of  thee. 
Order  thy  cause  before  Him,  and  argue  it.  Wait 
to  know  the  words  with  which  He  shall  answer 
thee,  and  understand  His  reply.  Only  be  sure 
that  He  will  not  contend  against  thee  with  His 
great  power.  Sometimes  we  are  so  bewildered 
and  perplexed  that  we  lose  the  realizing  sense  of 
God's  presence ;  but  there  is  no  real  difference. 
God  is  not  really  farther  away;  and  nothing 
glorifies  and  pleases  Him  more  than  for  us  to  go 
on  speaking  with  Him  as  though  we  could  see  His 
face,  and  realize  His  embrace.  Be  still  for  a 
moment,  and  say,  reverently  and  believingly : 
Loj  God  is  in  this  place. 
223 


Yet  a  little  while,  and  they  are  gone. 

Job  xxiv.  24  (R.  v.). 

JOB  here  describes  the  insecurity  of  the  wicked. 
He  may  have  raged  against  the  poor  and  inno- 
cent ;  but  in  a  moment  he  comes  down  to  Sheol, 
is  hurried  to  stand  before  his  Maker  to  receive 
his  sentence.  As  he  had  treated  the  poor,  so  he 
is  treated.  As  he  had  devoured  the  houses  of 
the  innocent,  so  he  is  devoured.  "  How  are 
they  become  a  desolation  in  a  moment !  They 
are  utterly  consumed  with  terrors.  As  a  dream 
when  one  awaketh ;  so,  O  Lord,  when  Thou 
awakest,  Thou  shalt  despise  their  image." 

For  those  who  fear  God  there  is  a  greatly  con- 
trasted lot.  They  receive  a  kingdom  that  cannot 
be  moved.  Zion  may  be  a  desolation,  and  Je- 
rusalem a  wilderness ;  the  holy  and  beautiful 
institutions  in  which  their  early  religious  impres- 
sions were  made  may  crumble ;  but  they  are 
come  to  the  heavenly  Jerusalem.  The  remov- 
ing of  those  things  that  are  capable  of  being 
shaken  only  makes  more  apparent  those  which 
cannot  be  shaken. 

Where  do  you  build  your  nest?  In  the  trees 
of  this  world,  that  sway  in  the  tempest,  or  may 
be  hewn  down  by  the  woodman's  axe ;  or  have 
you  learned  to  build  in  the  clefts  of  the  Rock  of 
Ages?  Is  your  treasure  in  human  friendships, 
which  may  change  or  be  cut  in  twain  by  the 
sharp  shears  of  death  ;  or  is  it  in  the  love  of  God, 
the  unchangeable  and  everlasting  Lover  of  souls? 
Let  us  look  off  from  ourselves ;  from  that  diseased 
introspection  that  so  confuses  and  dims  our  life; 
from  the  old  fears  that  made  us  tremble  and 
the  old  matters  of  which  we  must  speak  no 
more.  And  let  us  look  upward  and  forward  to 
that  near  future,  which  is  so  much  larger  and 
better  than  the  past  has  been,  and  where  we  shall 
attain  more  than  the  heights  of  our' dreams. 

224 


Hoiv  then  can  man  be  Just  7vith  God  ? 

Job  XXV.  4  (R,  v.). 

THIS  is  the  question  of  the  ages.  Man  knows 
that  he  is  as  a  worm,  and  worse.  For  no  animal, 
however  humble,  has  consciously  and  determin- 
edly broken  the  law  of  God,  and  defiled  its  na- 
ture. 

Our  first  effort  is  to  go  about  to  establish  a 
righteousness  of  our  own.  Repeated  failure  only 
aggravates  our  misery  and  chagrin,  till  we  fall 
helpless  at  the  foot  of  Sinai.  Our  vows  are 
broken,  the  law  of  God  lies  shivered  around  us, 
the  thunders  and  lightnings  make  us  afraid. 
Then  God  in  the  Person  of  Jesus  comes  to  our 
help.  First,  He  meets  and  satisfies  the  demands 
of  the  broken  law,  so  that  it  can  ask  no  more. 
With  His  own  hands  He  works  out,  and  brings 
in,  everlasting  righteousness.  And  finally.  He 
produces  in  us  that  faith  by  which  His  finished 
work  is  applied  to  our  conscience  and  heart. 

By  the  works  of  the  law  shall  no  flesh  be  justi- 
fied in  His  sight ;  for  by  the  law  is  the  knowledge 
of  sin.  But  we  are  justified  freely  by  His  grace 
through  the  redemption  that  is  in  Christ  Jesus, 
whom  God  hath  set  forth  to  be  a  propitiation. 
God  is  Himself  the  Justifier  of  the  ungodly. 
"Whom  He  called,  them  He  also  justified." 
He  takes  off  the  filthy  garments,  and  clothes  us 
in  change  of  raiment. 

But  the  condition  is  faith.  We  must  believe 
in  Him  who  justifieth  the  ungodly.  They  who 
believe  are  justified  from  all  things.  Being  justi- 
fied by  faith,  we  have  peace  with  God,  through 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  not  saved  by  be- 
lieving about  His  work,  but  in  Himself.  The 
Greek  of  John  iii.  i6  might  be  rendered,  Who- 
soever even  believeth  into  Him.  The  motion  of 
faith  is  ever  toward  the  heart  of  Him  who  died, 
and  rose,  and  lives.  Then  through  our  faith  the 
Spirit  produces  a  holy  character. 


How  S77iall  a  whisper  do  we  hear  of  Him  I 
Job  xxvi.  14  (R.  v.). 

JOB  in  thought  passes  through  the  universe. 
Sheol  stands  for  the  grave  and  the  unseen  v^^orld ; 
Abaddon,  for  Satan,  or  for  the  great  reservoirs  in 
which  the  destructive  agencies  of  creation  have 
their  home.  With  a  marvellous  anticipation  of 
the  conclusions  of  modern  science,  he  speaks  of 
the  world  as  pendant  in  space.  He  passes  to  the 
confines  of  light  and  darkness,  rides  on  the  wings 
of  the  wind,  discourses  of  the  clouds,  skims  the 
mighty  surface  of  the  sea.  All  this,  however,  he 
deems  as  the  outskirts  of  God's  ways.  It  is  but 
a  whisper  compared  to  the  mighty  thunder  of  His 
glory  and  power.  If  this  is  a  whisper,  what  must 
the  thunder  be  !  If  this  universe  is  but  a  flower 
on  the  meadows  of  God's  life,  what  must  not  God 
Himself  be  ! 

Perhaps  we  know  something  more  of  the  thun- 
der of  His  power  than  Job  could,  because  we 
have  stood  beneath  Calvary  and  seen  Jesus  die, 
and  He  is  the  wisdom  and  power  of  God ;  yea, 
we  have  witnessed  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His 
power,  according  to  the  working  of  the  strength 
of  His  might,  which  He  wrought  in  Christ,  when 
He  raised  Him  from  the  dead. 

Who  of  us  can  fathom  or  understand  the  power 
of  God  ?  But  what  a  comfort  to  know  that  it  is 
an  attribute  of  His  heart.  God  is  not  power,  but 
He  is  love,  and  His  love  throbs  through  and 
commands  His  power.  Be  reverent  when  you 
kneel  before  the  great  and  mighty  God  ;  but  be- 
lieve that  all  His  power  is  engaged  on  the  side 
of  His  weakest,  neediest  child.  And  more : 
cease  not  to  wait  upon  God  until  He  endue  you 
with  His  mighty  power,  for  service  and  for  daily 
living.  A  Nasmyth  hammer  can  break  a  nut- 
shell without  crushing  or  touching  the  kernel.   . 


226 


My  righteousness  I  hold  fast,  a7id  will  not  let  it 
go.  Job  xxvii.  6. 

JOB  had  an  ideal  and  clung  to  it.  Have  you 
such  ?  A  vision  of  what  you  may  be,  and,  by 
the  grace  of  God,  will  aim  at  being.  Bishop 
Westcott  says  : — **  The  vision  of  the  ideal  guards 
monotony  of  work  from  becoming  monotony  of 
life."  Bitter  indeed  is  life  for  those  who  have 
not  seen  the  heavenly  vision,  or  heard  the  calling 
upward  of  the  voice  that  says,  Come  up  hither. 
Any  life  looks  more  interesting  and  attractive 
when  the  light  of  our  ideal  falls  on  it,  and  we 
realize  that  every  yard  leads  somewhere,  and 
every  step  is  one  nearer  the  goal.  So  some  one  has 
suggested  that,  *'  If  we  cannot  realize  our  ideal, 
we  may  at  least  idealize  our  real." 

But  there  are  many  hindrances,  many  adverse 
influences  to  combat,  many  suggestions  that  we 
should  let  go  our  ideal.  We  have  so  often  failed, 
slipped  where  we  thought  we  should  stand,  limped 
where  we  thought  to  overcome  by  wrestling. 
The  crags  are  so  steep,  the  encouragement  we  re- 
ceive from  fellow  climbers  so  scant,  the  dis- 
suasions and  misconstructions — like  those  Job 
had  from  his  friends — so  many.  But  Jesus  who 
inspired  the  ideal  waits  to  realize  it,  if  only  you 
will  open  your  heart  and  let  Him  enter.  Do 
you  hunger  and  thirst?  then  He  will  satisfy. 
He  does  not  tantalize  and  disappoint  the  seeking 
soul. 


Have  we  not  all,  amid  life's  petty  strife, 

Some  pure  ideal  of  a  noble  life 

That  once  seemed  possible  ?     It  was.     And  yet 

We  lost  it  in  this  daily  jar  and  fret, 

And  now  live  idle  in  a  vague  regret. 

But  still  our  place  is  kept,  and  it  will  wait, 

Ready  for  us  to  fill  it,  soon  or  late : 

No  star  is  ever  lost  we  once  have  seen — 

We  always  may  be  what  we  might  have  been. 


227 


The   deep   sal  thy  It  is  not  in  me :  and  the  sea 
saith,  It  is  not  with  me.        Job  xxviii.  14  (r.  v.). 

IN  this  sublime  chapter  the  holy  soul  goes  in 
quest  of  wisdom,  which  is  the  perfect  balance  of 
the  moral  and  intellectual  attributes  of  the  soul; 
tliat  knowledge  of  God,  and  life,  and  truth, 
which  is  only  possible  when  the  eyes  of  the  heart 
have  been  enlightened  to  know ;  that  radiancy 
of  spirit  which  is  enlightened  and  illuminated 
with  God  who  is  Himself  the  Light. 

In  a  marvellous  description  of  mining  opera- 
tions, which  would  arrest  any  company  of  miners 
in  the  world,  if  read  from  the  Revised  Version, 
Job  declares  it  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  deep. 
From  one  quarter  of  the  universe  after  another, 
he  receives  the  intelligence  that  it  is  not  there. 
God  alone  has  the  secret ;  He  only  can  commu- 
nicate it,  or  give  the  disposition  to  appreciate 
and  receive. 

We  must  deal  with  God.  Looking  away  from 
every  other  source  of  illumination  and  satisfac- 
tion, we  must  have  close  and  searching  fellow- 
ship with  Him.  Dr.  Gordon  was  wont  to  say 
that  evangelical  faith  consists  not  in  a  glance 
alone,  but  in  a  gaze.  "  We  live  in  a  very  busy, 
perspiring  time,  when  a  thousand  clamant  calls 
assail  us  on  every  side ;  but  we  must  have  more 
time  for  visions  if  we  would  be  well  equipped  for 
our  tasks."  Let  us  then  turn  from  the  quarters 
where  we  have  been  accustomed  to  draw  our  sup- 
plies— broken  cisterns,  with  uncertain  and  brack- 
ish water — and  let  us  come  to  God,  the  eternal 
source  of  life  and  peace.  Love  and  rest  we 
want.  Thy  love  and  rest,  oh,  give  us  !  From 
men  and  things ;  from  the  mine,  the  deep,  and 
the  sea  ;  from  the  murmur  of  human  voices,  and 
the  cross-lights  of  human  interests,  we  come  back 
to  Thee,  our  Home. 


228 


Oh  that  I  were  as  in  the  months  of  old  ! 

Job  xxix.  2  (R.  v.). 

WE  are  irresistibly  reminded  of  Cowper's  sad 
complaint :  — 

What  peaceful  hours  I  once  enjoyed ! 

How  sweet  their  memory  still; 
But  they  have  left  an  aching  void 

The  world  can  never  fill. 

We  are  all  prone  to  think  that  the  earliest  days 
were  the  best ;  and  it  is  quite  possible  they  were. 
But  we  must  carefully  distinguish  between  the 
exchange  of  the  freshness  and  novelty  of  our  first 
love  for  a  deepening  and  maturing  love,  and  the 
loss  of  love.  The  streamlet  may  not  babble  so 
cheerily,  but  there  may  be  more  water  in  the 
river.  We  lose  the  green  Spring,  but  is  it  not 
better  to  have  the  intense  light  of  Autumn  in 
which  the  fruits  ripen  ?  There  may  not  be  so 
much  ecstasy,  but  there  may  be  stronger,  deeper 
experience.  We  should  not  reckon  our  position 
in  God's  sight  by  our  raptures,  and  count  our- 
selves retrograding  because  they  have  gone ;  there 
is  something  better  than  rapture  :  the  peace  of  a 
settled  understanding  and  unvarying  faith. 

Still,  if  it  be  really  so,  that  you  have  left  the 
old  place  on  the  bosom  or  at  the  feet  of  Christ, 
that  your  love  is  cooling  and  your  spirituality 
waning,  I  beseech  thee,  get  back  !  Remember 
whence  thou  art  fallen,  and  repent,  and  do  the 
first  works.  Jesus  yearns  to  reinstate  thee,  and 
has  permitted  this  restless  longing  for  the  past  to 
come,  that  it  may  be  with  thee  as  in  the  months 
of  old.  Again  His  lamp  shall  shine  above  thy 
head,  and  the  secret  of  the  Lord  shall  be  upon 
thy  tent ;  thy  steps  shall  be  washed  with  butter, 
and  the  rock  pour  out  rivers  of  oil ;  thy  roots 
shall  spread  to  the  waters,  and  the  dew  shall  lie 
all  night  upon  thy  branch. 
229 


/  cry  unto   Thee,  and  Thou  dost  ?iot  answer  me. 

Job  XXX.  20  (R.  v.). 

IT  may  have  seemed  so  to  the  sufferer ;  but 
there  is  not  a  cry  that  goes  from  the  anguished 
soul  which  does  not  ring  a  bell  in  the  very  heart 
of  God,  where  the  Man  of  Sorrows  waits,  touched 
with  the  feeling  of  our  infirmities. 

I  have  sometimes  gone  to  a  telephone  office, 
and  have  rung  the  bell,  asking  to  be  put  in  con- 
nection with  my  friend,  but  it  has  seemed  impos- 
sible to  get  at  him  ;  either  he  has  been  engaged 
or  absent,  and  one  has  found  oneself  speaking  to 
a  stranger,  and  the  voice  which  replied  has  been 
unfamiliar.  Thoroughly  disappointed,  one  turns 
away.  But  this  is  never  the  case  with  God. 
And  the  comfort  is,  that  He  is  most  quick  to 
succor  those  whose  cry  is  lowest.  As  a  mother 
goes  about  her  work,  she  is  less  sensitive  to  the 
trains  that  thunder  past,  and  the  heavy  drays, 
and  tlie  laughter  of  boisterous  health,  than  to  the 
stifled  cry  of  her  little  invalid  ;  and  if  there  could 
be  one  thing  more  sure  than  another  of  awaken- 
ing God's  immediate  response,  it  would  be  such 
broken  cries  as  pain  elicited  from  Job. 

But  the  answer  will  come — nay,  it  is  on  its 
way,  timed  to  arrive  in  the  fourth  watch  of  the 
night.  Perhaps  the  delay  is  the  answer,  because 
the  heart  needs  to  be  prepared  to  receive  the 
great  gift  when  it  comes.  Perhaps,  like  the 
Syrophenician  woman,  you  have  to  give  Christ 
His  right  place  as  Lord,  and  take  yours  amongst 
the  dogs.  Perhaps  the  answer  is  coming  all  the 
time  by  one  door,  whilst  you  are  looking  for  it 
through  another ;  but  you  cannot  and  must  not 
say  that  God  is  not  answering.  All  the  time  you 
are  crying,  the  answer  is  to  your  hand,  awaiting 
your  appropriation.  Go  to  the  post  office  for  the 
letter :  hasten  to  the  landing-stage  for  the  ship — 
it  is  in. 

230 


Mine   integrity. 

Job  xxxi.  6. 

INTEGRITY  is  from  the  Latin  word  integrita^ 
wholeness.  It  means  whole-heartedness.  It  is 
interesting  in  this  chapter  to  see  what,  in  Job's 
estimation,  it  involved. 

V.   I.  Purity  in  the  look. 

V.   7.  Cleanliness  of  the  hands. 

V.  13.  Thoiightfulness  for  domestic  servants 
and  underlings. 

V.   16.  Justice  to  the  poor  and  the  widow. 

V.  17.  Willingness  to  share  morsels,  and  to  be 
a  father  to  the  fatherless. 

V.   19,  20.  Clothing  for  the  naked. 

V.  21.  The  refusal  to  depute  to  others  help 
which  one  might  render. 

V.  24.  The  heart  weaned  from  the  love  of 
gold. 

V.   26.  Refusal  to  turn  aside  to  idols. 

V.  29.  Inability  to  rejoice  at  the  destruction  of 
those  who  had  derided  and  hated. 

V.  33.  The  frank  confession  of  wrongdoing. 

It  becomes  us,  prayerfully,  to  go  over  these 
items,  and  use  them  as  the  catechism  of  our  soul, 
for  if  this  was  the  standard  of  character  for  one 
who  lived  so  many  centuries  before  the  full  reve- 
lation of  Christ,  what  should  not  our  standard 
be  !  How  impossible,  however,  it  is  to  live  like 
this  from  without !  We  must  enshrine  within  us 
the  blessed  Spirit  of  God,  who  alone  originates 
and  maintains  that  perfect  love  to  God  and  man 
which  compared  to  Job's  maxims  is  as  the  heart 
to  the  body.  Law  is  given  as  the  expression  of 
God's  will  for  the  regulation  of  life  :  but  it  is  im- 
possible to  keep  the  law  till  we  have  the  love ; 
and  it  is  impossible  to  have  the  love  until  we 
have  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  through  the  Holy 
Ghost. 


231 


There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  breath  of  the 
Almighty  giveth  understanding,   job  xxxii.  5  (r.  v.). 

ELIHU  had  waited  whilst  the  three  elder  men 
said  all  that  was  in  their  hearts.  He  now  excuses 
his  youth  and  demands  audience,  because  so  con- 
scious that  the  breath  of  inspiration  had  entered 
his  soul.  Wisdom  is  not  with  age ;  but  wherever 
the  heart  is  freely  open  to  God,  He  will  make  it 
wise.  We  have  received  not  the  spirit  which  is 
of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit  which  is  of  God,  that 
we  may  know, 

George  Fox  tells  us  that  though  he  read  the 
Scriptures  which  spoke  of  Christ  and  of  God,  yet 
he  knew  Him  not  till  He  who  had  the  key  did 
open.  "  Then  the  Lord  gently  led  me  along  and 
let  me  see  His  love,  which  was  endless  and  eter- 
nal, surpassing  all  the  knowledge  that  men  have 
in  the  natural  state,  or  can  get  by  history  or 
books.  I  had  not  fellowship  with  any  people, 
priests  or  professors,  but  with  Christ,  who  hath 
the  key,  and  opened  the  door  of  life  and  light 
unto  me.  His  one  message  was  the  necessity  of 
the  Inner  Light,  the  inward  witness  of  the  Spirit, 
His  secret  revelations  of  truth  to  the  soul." 

This  distinction  needs  to  be  deeply  pondered. 
We  have  been  trying  to  know  God  by  the  intel- 
lect, by  reading  the  Bible  intellectually,  by  en- 
deavoring to  apprehend  human  systems.  There 
is,  however,  a  deeper  and  truer  method.  "  There 
is  a  spirit  in  man  !  "  Open  your  spirit  to  the 
Divine  Spirit  as  you  open  a  window  to  the  sunny 
air.  Instantly  God  enters  and  fills.  The  Spirit 
witnesses  with  our  spirit.  The  inbreathed  life  of 
God  gives  us  light.  We  know  by  intuition,  by 
fellowship  with  God,  by  direct  vision,  what  the 
wise  of  this  world  could  never  discover. 


If  there  be  with  him  a  messenger ^  an  interpreter. 

Job  xxxiii.  2j. 

GOD  is  greater  than  man,  and  by  His  love 
seeks  to  hold  man  back  from  his  purpose.  Some- 
times He  comes  in  the  visions  of  the  night;  some- 
times in  pain  and  sickness.  But  we  are  too  dull 
to  understand  the  inner  reason  of  God's  endeav- 
ors to  deliver  us  from  the  brink  of  destruction, 
and  therefore  we  need  an  interpreter,  one  among 
a  thousand,  to  explain  the  meaning  of  His  deal- 
ings, and  to  show  us  the  way  in  which  we  should 
amend  our  ways.  How  often  has  the  sick  visitor, 
the  minister,  the  friend,  interpreted  God's  pur- 
pose, enabling  us  to  see  light  in  His  light.  There 
are  few  higher  offices  in  this  world  than  to  act  in 
this  way  between  God  and  our  fellows. 

To  perform  this  function,  however,  we  need  to 
understand  two  languages;  the  one  of  the  throne, 
obtained  from  deep  and  intimate  converse  with 
our  Father,  while  the  other  is  man's  native  lan- 
guage of  pain  and  sorrow.  Each  must  be  spoken 
perfectly  before  we  can  interpret :  — 

"  And  to  the  height  of  this  great  argument 
Assert  eternal  Providence, 
And  justify  the  ways  of  God  to  man." 

But,  as  Bunyan  truly  says,  the  best  Interpreter  is 
the  Holy  Spirit.  As  soon  as  the  Pilgrim  has 
passed  the  Wicket-gate,  he  is  conducted  through 
the  Interpreter's  House  by  the  Interpreter  Him- 
self. Are  you  perplexed  as  to  the  meaning  of 
God's  Word,  the  dealings  of  God's  providence, 
the  mystery  of  God's  moral  government?  Ask 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  lead  you  through  chamber 
after  chamber,  unfolding  to  you  the  mysteries  of 
the  kingdom  of  heaven.  They  are  for  babes — 
for  the  childlike  and  pure  in  heart.  He  will 
show  you  wondrous  things  out  of  His  law. 

233 


He  giveth  quietness. 

Job  xxxiv.  2g. 

QUIETNESS  amid  the  accusations  of  Satan. 
— 'J'he  great  accuser  points  to  the  stains  of  our 
past  lives,  by  which  we  have  defiled  our  robes 
and  those  of  others;  he  says  that  we  shall  fall 
again  and  again ;  he  imputes  evil  motives  to  our 
holiest  actions,  and  detects  flaws  in  our  most 
sacred  services ;  he  raises  so  great  a  hubbub  that 
we  can  hardly  hear  another  voice  within  our 
souls.  Then  the  great  Intercessor  arises  and  saith, 
"The  Lord  rebuke  thee,  O  Satan,  the  Lord  that 
hath  chosen  Jerusalem  rebuke  thee ;  I  have  loved 
with  an  everlasting  love,  I  have  paid  the  ransom." 
So  "He  giveth  quietness." 

Quietness  amid  the  dash  of  the  storm. — We  sail 
the  lake  with  Him  still,  and  as  we  reach  its 
middle  waters,  far  from  land,  under  midnight 
skies,  suddenly  a  great  storm  sweeps  down.  Earth 
and  hell  seem  arrayed  against  us,  and  each  billow 
threatens  to  overwhelm.  Then  He  arises  from 
His  sleep,  and  rebukes  the  winds  and  the  waves ; 
His  hand  waves  benediction  and  repose  over  the 
rage  of  the  tempestuous  elements.  His  voice  is 
heard  above  the  scream  of  the  wind  in  the  cord- 
age and  the  conflict  of  the  billows.  Peace,  be 
still!  Can  you  not  hear  it?  And  there  is  in- 
stantly a  great  calm.     "  He  giveth  quietness." 

Quietness  amid  the  loss  of  inward  consolations. 
— He  sometimes  withdraws  these,  because  we 
make  too  much  of  them.  We  are  tempted  to 
look  at  our  joy,  our  ecstasies,  our  transports,  or 
our  visions,  with  too  great  complacency.  Then 
love,  for  love's  sake,  withdraws  them.  But,  by 
His  grace,  He  leads  us  to  distinguish  between 
them  and  Himself.  He  draws  nigh,  and  whis- 
pers tlie  assurance  of  His  presence.  Thus  an  in- 
finite calm  comes  to  keep  our  heart  and  mind 
**  He  giveth  quietness." 
234 


i 


None  saith,  Where  is  God  my  Maker,  who  gtveth 
songs  in  the  night  ?  Job  xxxv.  lo. 

DO  you  have  sleepless  nights,  tossing  on  the 
hot  pillow,  and  watching  for  the  first  glint  of 
dawn  ?  Ask  the  Divine  Spirit  to  enable  you  to 
fix  your  thoughts  on  God,  your  Maker,  and  be- 
lieve that  He  can  fill  those  lonely,  dreary  hours 
with  song. 

Is  yours  the  night  of  doubt  9 — A  holy  man  tells 
us  that  once  as  he  was  sitting  by  the  fire,  a  great 
cloud  came  over  him,  and  a  temptation  beset  him 
to  think  that  all  things  came  by  nature;  and  as 
he  sat  still  under  it,  and  let  it  alone,  a  living  hope 
arose  in  him,  and  a  true  voice  said,  **  There  is  a 
living  God  who  made  all  things."  And  imme- 
diately the  cloud  and  temptation  vanished  away, 
and  life  rose  over  it  all.  His  heart  was  glad, 
and  he  praised  the  living  God.  Was  not  this  a 
song  in  the  night? 

Is  yours  the  night  of  bereavement  ? — Is  it  not 
often  to  such  God  draws  near,  and  assures  the 
mourner  that  the  Lord  had  need  of  its  beloved, 
and  called  ''the  eager,  earnest  spirit  to  stand  in 
the  bright  throng  of  the  invisible,  liberated,  ra- 
diant, active,  intent  on  some  high  mission  "  ;  and 
as  the  thought  enters,  is  there  not  the  beginning 
of  a  song  ? 

Is  yours  the  night  of  discouragement  and  fancied 
or  actual  failure  ? — No  one  understands  you, 
your  friends  reproach ;  but  your  Maker  draws 
nigh,  and  gives  you  a  song — the  song  of  hope, 
the  song  which  is  harmonious  with  the  strong, 
deep  music  of  His  providence.  Be  ready  to  sing 
the  songs  that  your  Maker  gives. 

"  What  then  ?  Shall  we  sit  idly  down  and  say 
*  The  night  hath  come  ;  it  is  no  longer  day '  ? 


Yet  as  the  evening  twilight  fades  away, 
The  sky  is  filled  with  stars,  invisible  to  day. 

235 


Behold,  God  is  mighty ,  and  despiseth  not  any. 

Job  xxxvi,  J". 

WHAT  entrancing  assurances  are  contained 
in  this  and  the  preceding  sentence !  To  think 
that  in  all  our  wayfarings  through  this  world  One 
that  is  perfect  in  knowledge  is  always  with  us, 
and  One  that  is  mighty  is  pledged  to  bring  us 
through !  Nothing  could  be  desired  beside. 
This  makes  prayer  new.  It  is  a  child's  confiden- 
tial whisper  to  the  One  who  is  attent  to  the  lowest 
murmur,  who  cannot  forget,  who  will  not  relin- 
quish a  purpose  which  He  has  formed  though 
years  pass,  and  who  is  able  to  do  exceeding 
abundantly. 

It  is  because  God  is  so  great  that  He  despises 
none.  If  He  were  less  than  infinite.  He  might 
overlook.  The  boundlessness  of  His  being  has 
no  ebb,  fails  of  no  soul  He  has  made,  and  is  as 
much  at  any  one  point  as  if  He  had  no  care  or 
thought  beside.  In  fact,  those  that  man  despises 
stand  the  best  chance  with  God.  Just  because 
no  one  else  cares  for  them,  He  must ;  just  because 
no  one  else  will  help  them.  He  will.  This  is 
necessary  to  His  nature. 

When  a  philanthropist  adopts  a  certain  lapsed 
section  of  the  community,  he  does  so  because  no 
one  else  will.  It  becomes  a  matter  of  honor  with 
him  that  none  of  these,  outcast  by  all  else, 
should  miss  his  help.  And  God  has  constituted 
Himself  Champion,  Guardian,  and  Saviour,  of 
all  who  have  no  help  from  their  fellows.  Friend- 
less, forlorn,  helpless,  despised.  He  recognizes  and 
meets  the  claim  of  their  urgent  necessity. 
Bruised  reeds,  bits  of  smoking  tow,  half-consumed 
firebrands,  lost  sheep,  prodigal  sons,  waifs  and 
strays,  homeless,  destitute,  neglected — these  have 
a  first  claim  on  the  Almightiness  of  the  living 
God. 


236 


Men  see  not  the  bright  light  which  is  in  the  clouds. 

Job  xxxvii.  21. 

THE  world  owes  much  of  its  beauty  to  cloud- 
land.  The  unchanging  blue  of  the  Italian  sky 
hardly  compensates  for  the  changefulness  and 
glory  of  the  clouds.  Clouds  also  are  the  cisterns 
of  the  rain.  Earth  would  become  a  wilderness 
apart  from  their  ministry.  There  are  clouds  in 
human  life,  shadowing,  refreshing,  and  some- 
times draping  it  in  blackness  of  night;  but  there 
is  never  a  cloud  without  its  bright  light.  *'  I  do 
set  my  bow  in  the  cloud  !  " 

If  only  we  could  see  the  clouds  from  the  other 
side  where  they  lie  in  billowy  glory,  bathed  in 
the  light  they  intercept,  like  heaped  ranges  of 
Alps,  we  should  be  amazed  at  their  splendid 
magnificence.  We  look  at  their  under  side  ;  but 
who  shall  describe  the  bright  light  that  bathes 
their  summits,  and  searches  their  valleys,  and  is 
reflected  from  every  pinnacle  of  their  expanse? 
Is  not  every  drop  drinking  in  health-giving 
qualities,  which  it  will  carry  to  the  earth  ? 

O  child  of  God  !  If  you  could  see  your  sor- 
rows and  troubles  from  the  other  side ;  if  instead 
of  looking  up  at  them  from  earth,  you  would  look 
down  on  them  from  the  heavenly  places  where 
you  sit  with  Christ ;  if  you  knew  how  they  are 
reflecting  in  prismatic  beauty  before  the  gaze  of 
heaven,  the  bright  light  of  Christ's  face — you 
would  be  content  that  they  should  cast  their  deep 
shadows  over  the  mountain  slopes  of  existence. 
Only  remember  that  clouds  are  always  moving, 
and  passing  before  God's  cleansing  wind. 

«*  Green  pastures  are  before  nie,  which  yet  I  have  not  seen ; 
Bright  skies  will  soon  be  o'er  me,  where  the  dark  clouds 

have  been : 
My  hope  I  cannot  measure,  my  path  of  life  is  free ; 
My  Saviour  hath  my  treasure,  and  He  will  walk  with  me." 


237 


Canst  thou  hind  the  cluster  of  the  Pleiades  9 
Job  xxxviii.  ji  (r.  v.). 

THE  seven  stars  of  the  Pleiades  always  stand 
for  the  sweet  influences  of  spring ;  Orion  for  the 
storm  and  tempest.  In  this  sublime  catechism, 
Jehovah  asks  Job  if  he  has  any  control  over  the 
one  or  the  other.  As  it  is  with  the  year,  so  with 
our  life. 

There  are  times  when  the  Pleiades  are  in  the 
ascendant.  The  winter  is  over  and  gone,  the 
time  of  the  singing  of  birds  is  come.  Doves  coo 
their  love  notes  in  the  trees,  and  the  flowers  gem 
the  soil.  Days  of  hope,  of  radiant  light,  of 
ecstatic  joy  !  Days  in  which  God  seems  to  be 
making  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth  within  us  ! 
Days  when  our  Beloved  shows  Himself  through 
the  lattice-work,  and  says,  *'  Come,  my  be- 
loved !  "  Oh,  tender  influences  of  the  Pleiades, 
we  would  that  ye  might  ever  stay,  filling  us  with 
immortal  youth  !  When  God  bids  them  shine, 
no  one  can  bind  them.  When  He  gives  joy,  none 
can  give  sorrow.  No  mortal  man  can  restrain 
the  outburst  of  Nature's  spring.  You  might  as 
well  stay  the  resurrection  of  the  Son  of  God  and 
His  saints  ! 

But  Orion  has  his  work  as  well.  Storms 
come ;  the  drenching  rain  veils  the  landscape ; 
the  mighty  billows  are  lashed  to  fury.  But  all 
works  for  good.  The  blast  in  the  forest  snaps  off 
dead  wood.  The  rain  fills  up  the  wells.  Frost 
pulverizes  the  earth.  When  God  binds  Orion, 
man  cannot  unloose  him;  **no  weapon  that  is 
formed  against  thee  shall  prosper."  But  when 
the  Almighty  unlooses  Orion,  like  another  Sam- 
son, he  does  his  work  of  devastation,  before  which 
we  must  find  refuge  in  the  cleft  of  the  Rock. 

**  God  sendeth  sun, 
He  sendeth  shower, 
Alike  they're  needful  for  the  flower." 

238 


Knowest  thou  ? 

Job  xxxix.  I. 

THE  catechism  of  this  chapter  is  designed  to 
convince  man  of  his  ignorance.  How  little  he 
knows  of  nature  !  Even  though  centuries  of  in- 
vestigation and  research  have  passed,  there  are 
still  many  questions  which  baffle  us.  And  if  we 
know  so  liulc  of  the  Creator's  handiwork,  how 
much  less  do  we  know  of  Himself,  or  the  princi- 
ples on  which  He  acts  ! 

The  knowledge  of  God  is  not  intellectual,  but 
moral  and  spiritual.  Things  which  eye  saw  not, 
and  ear  heard  not,  are  made  known  to  Love  and 
Obedience.  Let  the  Love  of  God  be  shed 
through  the  heart,  and  the  will  of  God  be  the 
ruling  principle  of  life,  and  there  will  be  given 
a  knowledge  of  God  which  the  research  of  the 
investigator  could  never  gain.  "  We  have  re- 
ceived, not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit 
which  is  of  God,  that  we  might  know  the  things 
that  are  freely  given  us  of  God  .  .  .  they 
are  spiritually  discerned."     Knowest  thou  ? 

Dost  thou  know  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His 
power,  which  He  wrought  in  the  Resurrection  of 
thy  Lord — that  it  is  all  around  thee  waiting  to 
do  as  much  for  thee  also ;  lifting  thee,  dead 
weiglit  as  thou  art,  to  sit  in  the  heavenlies  ? 

Dost  thou  know  the  hope  of  His  calling  to  a 
life  within  the  vail,  with  the  vail  behind  thee, 
and  the  light  of  the  Shekinah  ever  on  thy  face? 

Dost  thou  know  the  riches  of  His  glorious  in- 
dwelling, that  He  is  prepared  so  to  infill  thee, 
that  thou  shalt  partake  of  the  very  life  where- 
with He  liveth  and  reigneth  evermore  ? 

Dost  thou  know  the  length,  and  breadth,  and 
depth,  and  height,  of  the  love  that  passeth  knowl- 
edge; and  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord? 


239 


/  am  of  small  account ;   what  shalt  I  answer 
Thee  ?  I  lay  mine  hand  upon  my  mouth.  Job  xl.  4. 

WHAT  a  different  tone  is  here  !  This  is  he 
who  so  vehemently  protested  his  innocence,  and 
defended  himself  against  the  attacks  of  his  ac- 
cusers. The  Master  is  come,  and  the  servant 
who  had  contended  with  his  fellows  takes  a  lowly 
place  of  humility  and  silence. 

The  first  step  in  the  noblest  life,  possible  to 
any  of  us,  is  to  learn  and  say  that  we  are  of  small 
account.  We  may  learn  it  by  successive  and  per- 
petual failures  which  abash  and  confound  us.  It 
is  better  to  learn  it  by  seeing  the  light  of  God 
rise  in  majesty  above  the  loftiest  of  earth's  moun- 
tains. "  When  I  was  young,"  said  Gounod  to  a 
friend,  "  I  used  to  talk  of  *  I  and  Mozart.'  Later 
I  said,  'Mozart  and  I.'  But  now  I  only  say 
'Mozart.'"  Substitute  God,  and  you  have  the 
true  story  of  many  a  soul. 

The  next  step  is  to  choke  back  words,  and  lay 
the  hand  on  the  mouth.  Silence  and  meditation  ! 
Not  arguing  or  contending  !  Not  complaining  or 
murmuring  !  Not  cavilling  or  criticising  !  But 
just  being  still — still,  that  you  may  feel  God 
near;  still,  that  you  may  hear  Him  speak. 
"  Take  heed  of  many  words,"  said  George  Fox; 
"keep  down,  keep  low,  that  nothing  may  reign 
in  you  but  life  itself." 

The  greatest  saints  avoided,  when  they  could, 
the  society  of  men,  and  did  rather  choose  to  live 
to  God,  in  secret.  A  certain  one  said,  "As  oft 
as  I  have  been  among  men  I  returned  home  less  a 
man  than  I  was  before.  Shut  thy  door  upon 
thee,  and  call  unto  Jesus,  thy  Beloved.  Stay 
with  Him  in  thy  closet,  for  thou  shalt  not  find 
elsewhere  so  great  peace."  How  good  it  would 
be  to  lay  our  hands  on  our  mouths  rather  oftener, 
whether  in  silence  with  our  fellows,  or  in  the 
hour  of  secret  prayer ! 

240 


IVho  then  is  he  that  can  stand  before  Me  f 

Job  xli.  lo  (R.  v.). 

THE  first  catechism  had  been  on  Job's  knowl- 
edge;  now  it  turns  on  his  power.  The  pivot  of 
the  one  was,  K7iowest  thou  ?  of  the  other,  Canst 
thou  ?  \i  di  man  cannot  stand  before  one  of 
God's  creatures,  how  much  less  before  the 
Creator  !  If  we  dread  the  wrath  of  the  enraged 
crocodile,  what  should  not  be  our  dread  before 
the  wrath  of  the  Eternal  ?  Canst  thou  stand  be- 
fore Him?  Canst  thou  strive  against  Him,  with 
any  hope  of  success  ?  Canst  thou  force  thyself, 
unbidden  and  unfit,  into  the  presence  of  the  Most 
Holy?  Thou  couldst  not  intrude  on  an  earthly 
sovereign ;  how  much  less  on  Him,  in  whose 
sight  the  heavens  are  not  clean  ? 

Eternal  light !  eternal  light ! 

How  pure  the  soul  must  be, 
"When  placed  within  thy  searching  light. 
It  shrinks  not,  but  with  calm  delight 

Can  live,  and  look  on  Thee ! 

But  Jesus  can  make  it  possible.  Through  Him 
we  draw  nigh  to  God.  We  have  boldness  to 
enter  into  the  Holiest  of  All  by  His  Blood.  We 
may,  through  Him,  be  able  to  say,  with  Elijah, 
"  Thus  saith  Jehovah,  before  whom  I  stand." 
Jesus  is  the  minister  of  the  heavenly  sanctuary, 
and  in  virtue  of  His  office  He  is  able  to  bring  us 
into,  and  maintain  us  within,  the  Most  Holy 
Place.  He  comes  out  to  take  us  by  the  hand ; 
and  then,  having  fulfilled  in  us  the  good  pleasure 
of  His  will,  He  brings  us  in  and  places  us  before 
the  face  of  God  forever.  Like  Solomon's  serv- 
ants, we  evermore  stand  before  the  king,  see  His 
face  and  hear  His  words. 

The  sons  of  ignorance  and  night 
May  dwell  in  the  Eternal  Light, 
Through  the  Eternal  Love. 
241 


Now  mine  eye  seeth   Thee :   wherefore  I  abhor 
myself,  and  repent  in  dust  and  ashes .     Job  xlU.  5, 6. 

THIS  is  the  clue  to  the  entire  book.  Here  is  a 
man,  who  was  universally  known  as  perfect  and 
upright,  one  that  feared  God,  and  eschewed  evil ; 
who  abounded  in  beneficent  and  loving  min- 
istries to  all  who  were  in  need ;  to  whom  respect 
and  love  flowed  in  a  full  tide.  He  was  not  con- 
scious of  any  failure  in  perfect  obedience,  or  of 
secret  sin ;  indeed,  when  his  friends  endeavored 
to  account  for  his  unparalleled  calamities  by  sug- 
gesting that  there  was  some  discrepancy  between 
his  outward  reputation  and  inward  consistency, 
he  indignantly  repelled  the  charge,  and  re- 
pudiated the  impeachment. 

But  there  were  inconsistencies  and  failures  in 
him  that  needed  to  be  exposed  and  put  away  be- 
fore he  could  attain  to  perfect  blessedness  and 
enjoy  unbroken  peace.  If  man  could  not  dis- 
cover them,  and  if  Job  were  unconscious  of  them, 
they  were,  nevertheless,  present,  poisoning  the 
fountain  of  his  being;  as  a  hidden  cesspool, 
whose  presence  is  undetected,  may  be  doing  a 
deadly  work  of  undermining  the  health  of  an  en- 
tire household.  So  God  let  the  man  into  His 
presence;  and,  like  Isaiah,  Ezekiel,  Peter,  and 
many  others,  he  at  once  confessed  himself  vile. 
The  light  of  the  great  white  throne  exposes  all 
unsuspected  blemishes.  Have  you  ever  seen 
God  !  Oh,  ask  for  that  vision,  that  you  may 
know  yourself  1  In  proportion  as  we  know  God, 
we  abhor  ourselves.  Then  Jesus  becomes  un- 
speakably precious.  Through  His  death  we  pass 
into  the  true  life,  and  begin  to  intercede  for 
others.  We  never  have  such  power  for  the  bless- 
ing of  the  world  as  when  we  lie  most  humbly  at 
the  feet  of  God. 


242 


A  List  of 


Rev.   F.   B.  Meyer's 
Works 


PUBLISHED    BY 


Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


New  York  :  158  Fifth  Avenue 
Chicago  :  63  Washington  Street 
Toronto  :  154  Yonge  Street 


Latest  Works. 

Paul :  A  Servant  of  Jesus  ChtisU 

i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00. 

"Of  the  many  Sacred  Biographies  I  have  written,  this  has 
been  by  far  the  most  interesting.  For  days  and  weeks  together 
I  have  lived  in  the  company  of  this  glorious  man;  but  only  to 
feel  that  he  transcended  all  one's  loftiest  conceptions.  Like 
some  great  mountain  range,  the  more  his  character  is  traversed, 
the  more  it  grows  on  the  imagination."— /^r(??«  i/ie  Pre/ace. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  holds  in  his  hand  the  key  to  his  reader's  heart 
and  conscience.  He  speaks  to  conscience  with  a  kind  of  author- 
ity which  it  is  not  easy  to  analyze  and  yet  harder  to  resist.  In 
this  volume  he  follows  Paul's  life  through  in  a  series  of  topics, 
every  one  of  which  is  rich  in  food  for  the  Christian  Hie."— The 
Inde^>endent. 

Saved  and  Kept. 

Coun-^els  to  Young  Believers.      Long  i6nio,  cloth,  50c. 

"It  contains  twenty-three  short  addresses,  earnest,  direct  and 
spiritual,  as  everything  that  comes  from  the  pen  of  this  devoted 
preacher.  He  writes  the  preface  on  his  fiftieth  birthday,  and 
as  he  reviews  the  past,  he  longs  to  utilize  the  lessons  and  warn- 
ings of  his  life  for  the  benefit  of  his  younger  brothers  and  sis- 
ters on  each  side  of  the  Atlantic."— 7"^^  Evangelist. 

Peace,  Perfect  Peace. 

A  Portion  for  the  Sorrowing.     i8mo,  cloth,  25c. 

"Though  the  book  is  a  little  one,  it  carries  much  more  con- 
solation than  many  larger  volumes  on  the  same  subject.  Mr. 
Meyer  does  not  remand  sorrow  to  an  imaginary  realm,  but 
facing  it  in  all  its  wearisomeness.  he  show?  how  faith  in  Christ 
enables  one  to  bear  it  and  profit  by  it."—  Ttu  Congregationalht. 

Cheer  for  Lifers  Pilgrimage. 

Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50c. 

"This  little  book  is  one  of  the  author's  cheery  helps  for  the 
pilgrim  in  his  life's  journey.  Like  sweet  songs  his  words  soothe 
and  comfort  and  strengthen  the  heart,  and  help  it  to  go  for- 
ward, whether  in  the  peaceful  home,  or  among  the  temptationr 
of  the  world.  Would  that  Christians  had,  or  could  give,  more 
time  to  such  devotional  and  upbuilding  reading." — The  Chrh 
tian  Observer. 

A  Castaway,  and  Other  Addresses. 

i2mo,  paper,  15c.;  cloth,  net  30c. 

"Contains  the  sermons  delivered  by  Mr.  Meyer  in  New  York, 
Boston,  and  in  part  in  Philadelphia,  during  his  ten  days'  visit 
tf  this  country  last  winter  (Feb.  1897.)  They  treat  of  the  hin- 
drances to  spiritual  growth  and  power,  of  the  evil  of  the  natural 
heart,  so  hard  to  overcome,  of  the  only  way  of  curing  this  evi. 
by  getting  Christ  into  the  heart,  of  the  work  of  Christ  and  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  of  the  possibilities  of  the  blessed  life  to 
which  the  writer  urgently  summons  his  readers."— T"-*^  Suit- 
day  School  Times. 


The  Christian  Life  Series. 

Each  i8mo,  cloth  decorated,  50  cents. 

Thfough  Fire  and  Flood. 

"  God's  purpose  running  through  our  lives,  often  leading 
•through  fire  and  flood,'  is  set  forth  in  these  pages.  The  au- 
thor's pungent  and  impressive  style  shapes  the  message  for 
encouragement  and  comfort."—  The  Presbyterian. 


The  Glorious  Lord. 

liblical  knowledge  and  e 
-.htnan. 

Key  Words  of  the  Inner  Life. 


"It  abounds  in  Biblical  knowledge  and  evangelical  earnest- 
ness."—  The  Churchman, 


"Mr.  Meyer  writes  fluently  and  forcibly  of  the  deep  things 
of  God,  and  fosters  spiritual  hunger  while  he  feeds  it." — The 
N.    1'.  Observer. 

Calvary  to  Pentecost, 

"All  Mr.  Meyer's  books  are  welcome,  but  none  more  than 
this.  It  is  rich  food  for  the  aspiring  Christian." — The  Standard. 

The  Futtire  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"  Full  of  tender  comfort  and  helpful  suggestions."  — Z4^/«- 
terior. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"  He  always  has  something  to  say  that  is  suggestive,  con- 
stantly casts  light  upon  the  Scripture." — The  S.  S.  Times, 

Christian  Living. 

"  Full  of  rich,  ripe  thought  and  strength  and  encouragement 
for  the  Christian  heart." — Christian  Work. 

The  Shepherd  Psalm. 

■  These  meditations  on  the  twenty-third  Psalm  are  earnest, 
devout,  practical."— /"y^^  Evangelist. 


The  ''Blessed  Life''  Editions. 

The  following  have  been  issued  in  the  new  ''  Blessed  Life 
Series,"  i8mo,  cloth,  ink  stampings,  each  30  cents. 

The  Shepherd  Psahn. 

Christian  Living. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

The  Future  Tenses  of  the  13Iessed  Life. 


Old  Testament  HEROEi>. 

lamo,  cloth,  eight  volumes,  each  $i.oo. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  is  unsurpassed  in  recent  times  in  his  facuh^  ^, 
helpfully  and  interestingly  adapting  studies  of  Old  Testament 
characters  to  modern  needs.  His  work  does  not  consist  of 
mere  pious  moralizing,  but  it  is  the  product  of  a  man  evidently 
of  scholarly  habits  and  attainments,  and  in  close  and  practical 
touch  with  the  life  of  the  people  of  the  day,  and  with  the 
strongest  and  clearest  convictions  that  the  simple,  plain  gospel 
of  Christ,  the  divine  and  atoning  Saviour,  and  the  Bible  the 
very  word  of  God,  are  indispensable  to  the  salvation  of  the 
world." —  The  United  Presbyterian. 

David:  Shepherd,  Psalmist,  King. 

"  As  in  all  his  works,  he  has  developed  the  spiritual  and 
practical  lines,  so  that  his  book  is  not  merely  a  record  of 
events,  but  the  story  of  a  great  life,  the  reading  of  which  will 
be  stimulating  and  profitable."— TVze^  Sunday  School  Times. 

•Jeremiah:  Priest  and  Prophet. 

"  It  is  at  once  a  biography,  an  interpretation,  and  a  teisea%d 
practical  application  of^  divine  truth  to  human  life.  It  is 
scholarly  but  not  pitched  on  too  high  a  key  of  learning  for  the 
common  reader." — The  Congregationalist. 

Joshua,  and  the  Land  of  Promise, 

■'  The  twenty  chapters  here  given  on  the  Book  of  Joshua  are 
so  manv  lines  of  light  on  the  whole  period  and  its  main  charac- 
ters. The  great  leader  stands  out  in  relief,  and  his  relations  to 
the  age  are  traced  with  care  and  intelligence." — Zion's  Herald, 

Moses,  the  Servant  of  God. 

*'  The  author's  analysis  of  the  character  and  history  of 
Moses  is,  in  some  respects,  the  best  which  we  remember  to 
have  seen.  Th*-  book  is  at  once  learned,  and  popular."— 7'/4df 
Congregationalist. 

Abraham?  or,  The  Obedience  of  Faith. 

"  He  is  throughout  reverent  and  thoughtful,  and  will  point 
out  to  many  a  reader  unsuspected  truth  and  beauty  in  the  Holy 
Srriptures." — The  Watchman. 

Elijah,  and  the  Secret  of  His  Power. 

••  Good,  exceedingly  good.  Mr.  Meyer  is  a  great  gain  to  the 
armies  of  evangelical  truth,  for  his  tone,  spirit  and  aspirations 
are  all  of  a  fine  gospel  sort.  — C.  H.  Spurgeon  in  S%vord  and 
Trowel. 

Israel,  a  Prince  with  God. 

"  No  Christian  is  likely  to  read  the  volume  ...  with- 
out being  wiser,  purer,  happier  and  more  devoted  to  his  Mas- 
ter. It  surpasses  any  book  we  have  seen  on  Jacob  and  his 
eventful  career." — The  Baptist  Magazine. 

Joseph :  Beloved — Hated — ^Exalted. 

"  We  trust  this  welcome  volume  will  find  readers  in  all  ranks 
and  classes,  among  old  as  well  as  young,  and  will  perform  a 
blessed  ministry  of  help  and  GT.tidance  in  the  lif e  v/hich  is  lif e 
indeed  ^^~-The  Christian. 


The  Expository  Series. 

Four  volumes,   i2mo,  cloth,    each  $i.oo. 

Qifist  in  Isaiaiu 

Expositions  of  Isaiah  XL.-LV. 

"The  redemption  of  Israel  out  of  Babylon  is  here  made  the 
subject  of  a  series  of  lucid  and  inspiriting  expository  essays, 
covering  the  section  of  Isaiah's  prophecy  devoted  to  that 
theme  (Chapters  4o-;5).  The  quality  of  the  author's  work  as  ao 
interpreter  of  Scripture  is  already  well  known  and  highly  ap- 
preciated in  this  country.  Nothing  thus  far  issued  by  him  can, 
in  our  judgment,  deserve  wider  or  longer  favor  than  this  apt, 
keen-eyed,  eloquent  expansion  of  the  prophet's  inspired 
words."— r^^r  Watchman. 

The  Way  Into  the  Holiest. 

Expositions  of  the  Epistle  to    the  Hebrews. 

"The  aim  of  the  author  in  this  work  is  to  deduce  the  great 
spiritual  lessons  which  are  enshrined  in  the  sublime  words  of 
the  epistle.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  Mr.  Meyer  has  admir- 
ably succeeded  in  accomplishing  his  purpose.  The  expositions 
as  a  whole  strikingly  show  that  Christ's  death  was  substitu- 
tionary, and  they  also  exhibit  the  true  relation  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament symbols  of  sacr-iice  and  priesthood  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  The  greatness  and  glory  of  the  Son  of  God  are  force- 
fully illustrated,  and  the  characteristics  of  the  ideal  Christian 
life  are  finely  described,  as  well  as  the  nature  of  the  discipline 
by  which  the  divine  character  is  perfected  in  man.  The  ex- 
positions are  admirable  specimens  of  lucid  spiritual  teaching 
couched  in  simple,  but  eloquent  language.  Loyal  disciples  o? 
Christ  will  prize  this  tribute  to  the  honor  of  their  Lord.  It  is 2 
volume  of  rare  worth."— 77^^  N.   V.  Observer. 

The  Life  and  Light  of  Men. 

Expositions  of  John  I. -XII. 

"These  expositions  have  the  character  of  all  Mr.  Meyer's 
writings.  They  combine  devout  insight  into  the  rich  resources 
of  the  Word  of  God,  with  skill  in  adapting  it  to  the  spiritual 
needs  of  his  readers.  He  is  earnest,  practical,  personal,  and 
he  does  not  allow  his  good  intentions  to  supply  the  place  of  re- 
search and  study,  or  to  supersede  the  necessity  of  thinking  for 
himself.  And  he  rises  above  the  common  mistake  of  devo- 
tional writers,  who  assume  that  the  same  rules  will  suffice;  and 
the  same  experience  is  required  of  every  believer."— /"A*?  Sun- 
day School  Times. 

Tried  by  Fire. 
Expositions  in  the  First  Epistle  of  Peter. 

"The  popularity  of  Mr.  Meyer's  Expositions  is  a  good  sign 
of  the  times.  This  latest  is  one  of  the  best,  and  is  full  of 
tender  Christian  wisdom.  The  chief  charm  of  the  book  'S  its 
earnest  simplicity."— TA^  British  H^eekiy. 

"As  is  well  known,  Mr.  Meyer's  stvle  is  vivid  in  description 
-..nd  mostly  deeply  spiritual  in  insiylit  and  application." — The 
Christian  Advocate  (.V.  V.) 


The  Bells  of  Is. 
tj^hoes  from  my  Early  Pastorates.     With  Portrait 

i2mo,  cloth,  75c. 
"  rnis  book  is  brief— sixteen  short  chapters,  each  one  a  lime 
psalm  of  life.  Mr.  Meyer  has  left  the  impress  of  his  stronj? 
personality  on  the  book.  It  is  full  of  his  quiet  reveries,  his 
outreaching  toward  God  and  toward  souls,  with  practical  sug- 
gestions as  to  city  missions,  and  relief  of  poverty  and  distress." 
—A.  T.  PiERSON,  D.D. 

Prayers  for  Heart  and  Home. 

Morning  and  Evening  Devotions  for  a  Month, 
8vo,  flexible  cloth,  round  corners,  75c. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  has  a  gift  of  utterance  in  things  spiritual  such 
as  few  men  of  the  present  day  possess,  and  no  Christian  writer 
of  the  day  is  better  fitted  by  character,  training  and  experience 
to  prepare  a  manual  of  worship  than  he.  The  volume  will  be 
'ound  helpful  and  stimulating  in  the  highest  and  truest  sense." 
-Christia7i   Work. 

The  Psahns. 

Notes  and  Readings.     i8mo,  cloth,  6oc. 
"An  admirable  little  volume,  which  should  prove  helpful  to 
any  preacher,  while  as  the  companion  of  the  private  student, 
it  should  be  invaluable." — The  Quiver. 

Light  on  Life's  Duties,  and  The  Secret  of  Guidance. 

Two  volumes  of  addresses.     Each  i2mo^  paper,  15c.; 
cloth,  net,  30c. 

Choice  Extracts  from  **  The  First  Steps.** 
And  Other  Writings  of  Rev.   P.  B.  Meyer,  selected  by 
Rev.  B.  Fay  Mills.  24mo,  paper,  each,  5c.;  per  dozen, 
net,  35c.     i6mo,  large  paper  edition,  15c. 

A  Holy  Temple. 

An  Address  to  Young  Men.     i8mo,  paper,  per  dozen, 

net,  20C. 

Envelope  Series  of  Booklets. 

Per  dozen,  net,  20c.;  per  hundred,  net,  %\.^o„ 

A  Keswick  Exnerience.  The  Secret  of  Christ's  Jndwell- 
The  Trivial  Round,  The  Com-        ang. 

mon  Task.  Where  Am  "±  Wrong 

Peace,  Perfect  T'eace,  Young  Men,  Don't  Drif:. 

The  Secret  of  .^ower.  The  Lost  Chord  Found. 

With  Christ  in  Separation.  How  to  Read  Your  Bible. 

Seven  Rules  for  Tail'-  Living.  The  Secret  of  Guidance. 

The  Secret  of  Victory  over  Sin.  The  Biessed  Dead. 

The  First  Step  into  the  Bless-  Burdens,  and  What  to  do  With 

ed  Life  Them. 

Words  of  Help  for  Christian  In  the  Secret  of  His  Presence. 

Girls.  Why  Sign  the  Pledge. 

The  Filling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  Chambers  of  the  King. 

Not  Eradication.  The  Stew^ardship  of  Money. 

How  to  Bear  Sorrow.  Comfort  to  be  Comforted. 


1    1012  01276  7770 


;!!iiiiii"' 


I, 


,■11 P  '"rr  ■  ■. ' 


^^^ 

■^^^^^^^^^^^^■H 


