|||ii;,Ha:^f;:-!ilP'i!!i':  !l 


■^mi> 


>ilslU! 


i;i\i!' 


LIBRARY  OF  PRINCETON 


JUN      5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


BS  491  .M49  1898  v.l 
Meyer,  F.  B.  1847-1929 
Our  daily  homily 


Our  Daily  Homily 

Volume   I :     Genesis-Ruth 


THE  COMPLETE 

JVORKS 

OF 

REV, 
For 

F.   B.   MEY 

criptive    list 

complete    des 

of  mr 

.    CMejyer's    writings,    see      1 

the  concluding  pages 

of  this  vol- 

ume. 

^11    of  the 

books    there 

named  will  be  sent, 

post  free^  on 

receipt 

of  price. 

Our  Daily  Homily 


Volume  I :    Genesis-Ruth 


By  the  Rev. 

F.  B.  MEYER,  B.A. 


AUTHOR  OF 

'  The  Shepherd  Pl<llm,"  "  Ol\l  TLJlmwrnit  Uam 


"Chris  ia: 


imARY^OF  PRINCETON 


M     5  2003 


GICAL  SEMir  ARY 


New  York      Chicago      Toronto 

Fleming   H.  Revell    Company 

Publishers  of  Evangelical  Literature 


Copyright,  1898 

BY 

Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


PREFACE 

THE  Angels  who  daily  spread  the  table  in  the 
wilderness  during  the  desert  wanderings  could 
hardly  have  had  more  pleasure  in  their  work  than 
I  have  had  in  preparing  a  daily  meal  for  many  of 
God's  children ;  and  the  response  has  been  quite 
remarkable. 

From  sick  chambers,  from  souls  in  sore  distress 
and  perplexity,  from  discouraged  servants  of  God, 
from  those  occupied  in  lonely  outpost  duty,  from 
all  parts  of  the  world — testimony  has  come  to 
the  appropriateness  and  directness  with  which 
the  Daily  Homily  has  spoken  to  the  needs  of 
God's  people.  To  Him  be  the  glory,  who  still 
multiplies  the  five  barley-loaves  and  two  small 
fish. 

In  response  to  many  requests,  these  brief  med- 
itations are  now  published  in  a  permanent  form ; 
and  it  is  hoped  that  they  will  be  largely  used  in 
the  private  closet  and  at  the  family  altar ;  espe- 
cially where  the  holy  habit  prevails  of  reading 
the  Word  of  God  through,  in  due  course,  from 
cover  to  cover. 

They  do  not  profess  to  be  comprehensive  or 
profound.     **  A  Homily,"  says  an  authority,  **  is 


PREFACE. 


distinct  from  mere  exegesis  or  exposition ;  be- 
cause tlie  latter  is  addressed  to  the  understand- 
ing, while  the  Homily  is  meant  to  affect  the  heart 
also,  and  to  persuade  those  who  hear  to  apply  the 
lessons  of  Scripture  for  the  reformation  of  their 
lives."  This  definition  admirably  describes  my 
purpose.  I  have  endeavored  to  build  an  exhor- 
tation to  the  heart  from  a  careful  consideration 
of  the  selected  passage,  often  in  the  fresh  light 
thrown  on  it  from  the  Revised  Version. 


F.  B.  Meyer. 


OUR  DAILY  HOMILY 


The  Evening  and  the  Morning  were  the  First 
Day.  Genesis  i.  j. 

HOW  different  is  God's  method  from  man's  ! 
The  creature  works  from  day  to  night,  his  best  is 
first ;  but  darkness  overshadows  his  fairest  hopes 
and  best-concerted  schemes.  The  Creator's  days 
begin  with  the  preceding  eve.  He  reckons  the 
evenings  and  nights  into  the  days,  because  out 
of  them  the  day  is  born ;  they  usher  in  the  light, 
and  recreate  body  and  brain  for  the  busy  hours 
that  follow. 

Art  thou  disappointed  in  Christian  work? — 
Remember  that  God  wrought  on  through  long 
dark  ages,  ere  His  schemes  were  evolved  in  order 
and  beauty.  Human  schemes  begin  with  blare 
of  trumpet  and  roll  of  drum,  but  are  soon 
plunged  in  darkness.  The  heavenly  seed  is  sown 
in  autumn  shadows ;  the  foundation-stone  of  re- 
demption was  laid  amid  the  gloom  of  Calvary ; 
the  work  that  lasts  generally  begins  amid  disap- 
pointment, difficulty,  and  heart-break,  but  inevi- 
tably passes  into  the  day. 

Art  thou  passing  through  the  bitterness  of  soul- 
trouble  ? — For  weeks  there  has  been  no  ray  of 
comfort,  no  sign  of  deliverance.  Yet  every  dark 
hour  is  hastening  toward  the  dawn.  Thou  shalt 
see  thy  Beloved  walking  toward  thee  in  the  morn- 
ing light. 

Art  thou  in  despair  for  the  world  ? — The  times 
are  dark,  and  threaten  to  get  darker.  But  if  the 
first  creation  began  in  the  dark,  can  it  be  won- 
dered at  that  the  second  must  begin  there  to  ? 
But  as  the  one  emerged  in  daylight,  so  shall  the 
other.  The  morning  cometh ;  see  the  star  of 
day  standing  sentry !  Time  is  bearing  us  to  a 
day  that  shall  never  go  down  to  night,  but  shall 
mount  ever  toward  its  meridian. 


The  Lord  God  put  him  into  the  Garden. 

Genesis  ii.  /j*. 

THUS  God  started  man  in  an  ideal  home. 
Memories  of  Eden,  exquisite  as  dreams,  weave 
the  background  of  human  life.  Fellowship 
with  the  Creator,  who  walked  its  glades;  its 
river,  trees,  and  fruits ;  its  blessed  companion- 
ship ;  its  light  and  ennobling  toils — how  fair  the 
picture ! 

The  Garden  of  Eden. — That  was  God's  ideal. 
When  men  point  thee  to  the  scars  on  the  world's 
face,  left  by  the  trail  of  the  Arab  slaver,  the 
march  of  the  army,  the  decaying  glory  of  human 
civilization,  and  ask  how  such  things  are  con- 
sistent with  God's  love,  point  to  that  garden  and 
say,  "That  is  what  the  love  of  God  meant  for 
man  ;  Satan  and  sin  have  wrought  this." 

The  Garden  of  Gethsemane. — When  man  for- 
feited Paradise,  the  Saviour  was  revealed  to  re- 
gain it.  He  trod  the  winepress  alone  in  the 
shadowed  garden  of  the  olive  trees,  that  through 
its  glades  He  might  pass  to  His  cross,  and  so 
make  the  wastes  of  sin  bloom  again  as  Eden.  Is 
it  wonderful  that  another  Paradise  is  possible, 
when  He  sowed  its  seeds  and  watered  the  soil 
with  His  blood  ? 

Tur7iing  wastes  into  gardens. — In  Eden  man 
wrought  as  God's  fellow  worker;  and  we  are 
called  each  day  to  do  something  toward  recon- 
structing the  Lost  Paradise.  Find  thy  part  in 
delving,  sowing,  watering,  or  tending  the  tender 
shoots  !  Seek  that  thine  heart  should  be  an  Eden, 
kept  sacred  for  thy  King,  and  endeavor  thy  best 
to  plant  gardens  where  hitherto  sand-wastes  and 
thorn-thickets  have  prevailed.  Then,  ''instead 
of  the  thorn  shall  come  up  the  fir  tree,  and  in- 
stead of  the  briar  shall  come  up  the  myrtle  tree ; 
and  it  shall  be  to  the  Lord  for  a  name,  for  an 
everlasting  sign  that  shall  not  be  cut  off." 
2 


Where  a^t  thou  ? 

Genesis  in.  g. 

THE  cool  of  the  day,  when  the  breeze  steals 
over  the  fevered  landscape,  is  an  appropriate 
time  for  man  to  hold  fellowship  with  God.  We 
need  to  have  His  hand  laid  on  our  throbbing 
temples,  stilling,  tranquillizing,  shedding  His 
serenity  throughout  our  being.  What  the  breath 
of  evening  is  in  summer,  fellowship  with  God 
will  be  for  thee,  my  soul ;  see  that  thou  art  not 
so  absorbed  with  thy  sins,  thy  love,  or  thy  busi- 
ness, as  to  miss  the  tryst,  when  the  sun  is  wester- 
ing. 

God  misses  His  child. — That  hour  of  fellow- 
ship was  much  to  Adam,  and  it  was  more  to 
God.  Love,  God's  love,  craves  for  fellowship. 
As  the  musician  for  his  lute,  as  the  hart  for  the 
brook,  as  the  mother  for  the  twining  arms  and 
babbling  talk  of  her  child — so  does  God  long  for 
the  free  outpourings  of  His  child's  heart  in  prayer ; 
misses  them  when  withheld  ;  is  jealous  when  they 
are  fitful  and  intermittent. 

God  seeks  His  child. — He  did  not  wait  till 
Adam  found  his  way  back  to  His  side.  But  He 
hastened  in  search  of  him.  So  through  the  glades 
He  comes  to  seek  thee,  O  truant  one  !  Where  art 
thou,  that  for  these  many  days  thou  hast  withheld 
thyself  from  the  hour  of  prayer?  Wilt  thou  not 
say  with  the  psalmist,  "When  thou  saidst,  Seek 
ye  my  face,  my  heart  said  unto  Thee,  Thy  face, 
Lord,  will  I  seek?" 

God  mourns  over  His  child. — These  words,  in 
one   version,  are   rendered,  Alas,   for  thee :    as 
though  the  heart  of  God  were  wrung  with  sorrow  , 
for  our  loss,  as  well  as  His.     But  He  does  not  i 
content   Himself  with  regret.     By  the  pang  of 
travail,  by  the  prick  of  thorns,  by  the  necessity 
of  labor,  by  sacrifice  and  gifts  of  covering  for 
our  nakedness,  He  brings  us  back  to  Himself. 
3 


Where  is  Abel  thy  Brother  ? 

Genesis  iv.  g. 
THE  first  question  God  puts  to  the  soul  is, 
*'  Adam,  where  art  thou  ?  "  The  next,  "  Where 
is  Abel  thy  brother?  "  We  are  our  brothers' 
keepers.  Each  within  our  reach,  all  who  need 
our  help,  all  related  to  us  by  the  ties  of  the 
family,  have  a  claim  on  us.  We  must  not  take 
an  advantage  over  them ;  their  weakness  and 
need  are  strong  claims  on  our  resources  of  every 
kind ;  we  are  bound  to  keep  them  so  far  as  we 
can ;  we  may  at  any  moment  be  called  to  give  an 
account  of  their  whereabouts.  To  dispute  this 
is  to  betray  the  spirit  of  Cain,  who  was  a  mur- 
derer. 

God  keeps  an  inventory  of  His  saints. — In 
His  book  their  names  are  written.  Their  names, 
abode,  and  circumstances ;  their  fathers,  mothers, 
and  brothers  ;  their  occupation,  whether  they  keep 
the  sheep  or  till  the  land :  all  are  known  to  Him, 
because  fixed  by  His  providence.  Whatever 
touches  them  is,  therefore,  instantly  known  to 
Him.  It  is  as  though  they  were  part  of  His  very 
being,  and  a  stab  of  pain  to  them  thrills  His 
heart. 

God  calls  us  to  help  Him  in  keeping  one  an- 
other.— We  are  to  watch  for  each  other's  souls ; 
to  consider  one  another  to  provoke  to  good  works ; 
to  bear  one  another's  burden;  to  exhort  each 
other,  to  convert  the  wanderer  from  the  path  of 
the  destroyer,  and  to  wash  stains  from  his  feet. 
The  cure  of  souls  is  the  work  of  all  the  saints. 
But  this  is  only  possible  to  those  who  have  been 
baptized  into  the  Spirit  of  Christ.  Remember 
that  you  have  just  as  much  love  toward  God,  as 
you  are  willing  to  show  toward  the  brother  whom 
you  have  seen.  *'This  commandment  have  we 
from  Him,  That  he  who  loveth  God  love  his 
brother  also." 


Enoch  walked  with  God. 

Genesis  v.  24. 

WHAT  an  epitaph  on  this  ancient  saint !  It 
is  as  clear-cut  to-day  as  when  first  recorded  here. 
We  know  nothing  of  Enoch  but  this  brief  record  ; 
but  it  tells  us  everything.  It  was  not  an  act  or  a 
number  of  acts,  but  a  high  tone  of  life  constantly 
maintained.  Better  to  walk  with  God  every  day 
in  calm,  unbroken  fellowship,  than  to  have  oc- 
casional rapturous  experiences,  succeeded  by  long 
relapses  and  backslidings.  The  Hebrew  word 
might  be  rendered,  ''Enoch  walked,  and  con- 
tinued to  walk." 

Be  sure  to  go  Gods  Way. — He  will  not  walk 
with  thee  in  thy  way,  but  thou  mayest  walk  with 
Him  in  His.  To  this  He  calls  thee.  Each  mo- 
ment, and  especially  when  two  or  three  roads 
diverge,  look  up  to  Him,  and  say,  "  Which  way 
art  Thou  taking,  that  I  may  accompany  Thee?  " 
It  will  not  be  so  hard  to  forsake  inviting  paths 
and  engaging  companions,  if  only  the  eye  is  kept 
fixed  on  His  face,  and  the  track  of  His  footsteps 
determines  thy  road  beyond  hesitation  or  dis- 
pute. 

Be  sure  to  keep  God^s  Pace. — Do  not  run  im- 
petuously before  Him  ;  learn  to  wait  His  time : 
the  minute-hand  as  well  as  the  hour-hand  must 
point  the  exact  moment  for  action.  Do  not 
loiter  behind  in  indolence  or  sloth.  Be  loyal 
and  true  to  His  ideals,  and  quick  to  obey  His 
least  commands. 

Be  sure  to  wear  God' s  Livery. — He  is  in  the 
light ;  the  light  is  His  chosen  symbol ;  it  ill  be- 
comes thee  to  wear  the  unfruitful  works  of  dark- 
ness. Put  them  off,  and  put  on  the  armor  of 
light.  Walk  with  Him  daily  in  stainless  robes, 
washed  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb.  Then  thy 
fellowship  shall  be  with  the  Father,  the  Son,  and 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  with  all  holy  souls  every- 
where. 


Noah  was  just i  .  .  .  perfect ^  .  .  .  walked  with 
God.  Genesis  vi.  g. 

THE  eyes  of  God  went  to  and  fro  over  the 
ancient  world,  where  sin  reigned  unchecked,  to 
discover  one  grateful  spectacle.  But  they  were 
doomed  to  disappointment,  till  they  lighted  on 
Noah.  He  found  grace  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord, 
because  him  only  had  God  seen  to  be  righteous 
in  all  his  generation.  Like  Antipas,  he  dwelt 
where  Satan's  seat  was,  held  fast  the  Divine 
name,  and  was  God's  faithful  witness.  Be  thou 
loyal  to  God,  my  soul,  though  thou  stand  alone. 
There  are  three  characteristics  in  the  man  who 
finds  grace  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord. 

In  himself  he  is  Just. — Not  faultless,  as  judgec 
by  the  white  light  of  eternity ;  but  blameless,  so 
far  as  his  own  consciousness  is  concerned.  He 
wears  ever  the  white  flower  of  a  blameless  life. 
His  strength  is  as  the  strength  of  ten,  because  his 
heart  is  pure.  He  exercises  himself  to  have  al- 
ways a  conscience  void  of  offence  toward  God 
and  man.  This  condition  is  only  possible  to 
faith,  that  opens  the  door  of  the  heart  to  receive 
the  life  of  God.  Wouldst  thou  be  just,  welcome 
that  Just  One.     Let  Him  live  within  thee. 

Toward  man  he  is  Upright. — He  does  not 
keep  his  eyes  bowing  down  to  the  ground  in 
shame,  or  furtively  looking  around  to  gain  a 
secret  advantage;  he  looks  the  whole  world  in 
the  face.  His  eyes  reflect  the  integrity  and  pu- 
rity of  his  soul ;  they  beam  with  sincerity,  unself- 
ishness, and  love. 

With  respect  to  God,  he  abides  in  Perpetual  Fel- 
lowship.— This  were  worth  our  getting,  though  we 
parted  with  all  our  jewels  to  win  it.  To  be  tuned 
into  one  deep  accord  with  the  Divine  nature;  to 
answer  to  Him  with  one  full,  responsive  chord ; 
to  be  always  found  where  God  is,  and  never 
where  He  is  not — that  were  life  indeed. 


As  God  had  commanded. 

Genesis  vii.  g. 

THIS  is  the  secret  of  a  Holy  and  Blessed  Life. 
Most  of  our  sorrows  and  disappointments  have 
come  on  us  because  we  have  chosen  our  own 
path,  and  done  according  to  our  own  will. 

In  obeying  J  we  7nust  sometimes  walk  in  the  dark. 
— When  Noah  began  to  walk  with  God,  he  knew 
not  that  it  would  lead  him  into  collision  with  his 
generation,  with  the  suggestions  of  common 
sense  and  experience,  and  with  much  that  he  held 
dear  as  life.  But  walking  on  each  day,  he  grew 
strong  to  trust  in  the  bare  word  of  his  Almighty 
Guide,  and  grasped  it  as  men  in  the  catacombs 
will  keep  their  hand  on  a  tiny  string  or  cord,  un- 
til the  first  streak  of  daylight  appear.  Obey  ab- 
solutely the  voice  that  speaks  in  thy  heart ;  the 
way  is  dark,  but  it  is  the  way. 

In  obeying i  we  must  learn  to  watt. — For  one 
hundred  and  twenty  years  the  long-suffering  of 
God  waited,  and  during  that  weary  period  this 
true  heart  failed  not.  Then  for  seven  days  the 
patriarch  waited  within  the  closed  doors.  It  is 
not  easy  to  bear  the  long  strain  of  endurance. 
To  rush  into  the  battle,  to  do  something  desper- 
ate, to  strike  for  liberty — this  is  the  choice  of  the 
flesh ;  but  to  live  in  hourly  fear,  to  toil  on  with- 
out result,  to  see  the  years  stealing  away  the  bank 
or  shoal  on  which  our  heart  had  erected  its  struc- 
tures of  hope — this  is  hardest  of  all,  unless  our 
hope  is  anchored  beyond  life's  ebb  and  swell. 

In  obeying  God  others  obey  us. — How  came  it 
that  these  creeping  things  and  flying  fowls,  these 
living  creatures,  clean  and  unclean,  entered  the 
Ark  so  tamely  and  submissively?  Surely  a 
Divine  constraint  was  upon  them.  When  we 
are  under  authority,  we  can  say,  "Go,"  "Come," 
"  Do  this."  All  things  serve  the  man  who  serves 
the  Divine  Master,  Christ. 
7 


God  remembered  Noah. 

Genesis  viii.  i. 

HE  cannot  forget  thee,  though  all  hearts  that 
loved  thee  are  cold  in  death,  and  though  floods 
of  trouble  surge  and  break  around.  He  comes 
nearest  when  there  is  none  else  to  intercept  His 
love.  The  floods  but  bear  us  nearer  to  His  heart, 
above  the  tops  of  the  highest  hills. 

He  could  7iot  forget  because  His  hofior  was 
pledged. — There  was  a  tacit  understanding  be- 
tween Noah  and  Himself,  that  if  His  servant 
obeyed  His  mandate  He  would  be  responsible 
for  the  consequences  that  obedience  might  in- 
volve. There  is  no  need  to  make  bargains  with 
God,  as  Jacob  did.  It  is  far  better  simply  to 
obey,  sure  that  whatever  the  highest  honor  may 
demand,  God  will  be  equal  to  it.  He  will  have 
prepared  more  than  we  expected. 

He  could  not  forget,  because  He  rode  the 
waters  with  His  child. — He  said,  "  Come  thou 
into  the  Ark,"  evidently  He  was  inside;  and 
when  it  is  said  that  God  shut  him  in,  it  was  from 
inside  that  the  door  was  locked.  Whatever  hap- 
pened to  Noah  was  an  experience  for  his  Al- 
mighty Friend.  They  had  walked  together  on 
the  earth ;  they  now  shared  together  the  seclu- 
sion of  the  Ark.  God  is  identified  in  the  experi- 
ences of  His  saints.  Their  pangs,  and  tears, 
and  waiting-hours  are  His.  He  can  no  more  for- 
get, than  a  mother  her  sucking  child. 

He  could  not  forget ,  because  Noah  was  a  type 
of  His  beloved  Son. — Across  the  dark  sea  of 
death,  the  cross  of  Jesus  has  brought  Him  and 
His  own  :  so  that  we  now  belong,  not  to  the  old 
world  which  is  under  the  curse,  but  to  the  world 
of  Resurrection-Life.  The  dark  woes  of  Calvary 
were  imaged  there :  how  could  God  forget  ? 
Reckon  on  God's  faithfulness :  He  will  not  leave 
thy  soul  in  Hades. 

8 


My  Bow  in  the  Cloud. 

Genesis  ix.  ij. 

A  COVENANT  is  a  promise  or  undertaking, 
resting  on  certain  conditions,  with  a  sign  or  token 
attached  to  it.  The  rainbow  on  the  raincloud, 
the  Lord's  Supper,  the  wedding-ring,  are  signs 
and  seals  of  the  respective  covenants  to  which 
they  belong.  Whenever  we  see  them  we  should 
bethink  ourselves  of  the  covenant.  Whenever 
you  see  a  rainbow,  recall  the  covenant  into  which 
God  has  entered  with  thee ;  for  as  He  has  sworn 
that  the  waters  of  Noah  should  no  more  go  over 
the  earth,  so  His  kindness  shall  not  depart  from 
thee,  nor  the  covenant  of  His  peace  be  removed. 
Three  things  are  needed  to  make  a  rainbow. 

A  cloud. — When  man's  sin  overshadowed  Par- 
adise, the  bow  of  promise  shone  ;  and  when  the 
thunderclouds  gathered  about  the  Saviour's  path, 
the  Divine  voice  assured  Him  that  as  He  had 
glorified  the  Divine  Name  by  His  life.  He  should 
glorify  it  much  more  by  His  death.  When  the 
black  clouds  of  conviction,  bereavement,  soul- 
anguish  beset  thee,  look  out  for  the  bow :  it  is 
always  there,  though  sufferers  do  not  always  per- 
ceive it. 

Rain. — There  are  no  rainbows  unless  there  be 
falling  drops  to  catch  and  unravel  the  sunbeams. 
It  may  be  that  all  evil  is  worse  in  its  anticipation 
than  in  its  endurance ;  but  this  is  certain,  that 
the  big  drops  of  sorrow  have  to  patter  on  our 
souls  before  we  can  realize  all  that  God  is  pre- 
pared to  be  to  us. 

Sunshine. — It  is  only  when  God  comes  into 
our  grief  that  we  can  see  the  treasures  of  Love 
and  Grace  which  are  stored  for  us  in  Him.  We 
never  know  how  great  a  blessing  sorrow  may  be 
till  we  carry  it  into  the  light  of  the  King's  face. 
It  is  the  dark  canvas  on  which  the  artist  produces 
his  most  marvellous  effects. 


The  Isles  of  the  Gentiles. 

Genesis  x.  j. 

FEW  realize  the  treasures  that  lie  in  this  heap 
of  names.  This  chapter  is  the  key  to  ancient 
histories  and  contains  many  of  the  names  that 
lie  on  our  modern  maps.  What  teeming  myriads 
are  here  !     We  learn  three  things. 

The  Oneness  of  the  Human  Race. — "God 
hath  made  of  one  blood  all  nations  of  men  to 
dwell  on  the  face  of  the  earth."  The  slave  that 
crouches  in  the  African  wood,  the  meanest  out- 
cast that  creeps  along  in  the  dark,  the  veriest 
ruffian  red-handed  in  crime — are  bone  of  our 
bone,  no  less  than  the  kings  and  saints,  the 
prophets  and  martyrs. 

The  Wealth  of  our  Saviour^ s  nature. — He 
loved  all  j  He  gave  Himself  for  all ;  He  became 
the  Propitiation  for  the  sins  of  all ;  through  Him 
all  will  rise ;  and  He  is  able  to  satisfy  all  from 
His  royal  heart.  "  My  God  shall  supply  all  your 
need  according  to  His  riches  in  glory  by  Christ 
Jesus."  There  is  not  one  child  of  man  who  may 
not  find  his  consummation  and  bliss  in  Jesus,  the 
One  Man.  All  men  are  but  broken  lights  of 
Him ;  and  of  all  men  that  have  ever  lived  He  is 
the  one  flawless,  sinless,  perfect  Man,  the  apex 
of  the  pyramid  of  humanity,  the  Head  and 
Prince. 

The  warrant  for  Foreign  Missions. — If  the 
races  of  mankind  have  sprung  from  a  common 
stock,  the  experience  of  one  is  the  key  to  all. 
Each  may  learn  from  his  own  heart  to  estimate 
the  hopes  and  fears,  the  yearnings  and  tempta- 
tions, the  weariness  and  sin-consciousness  of  the 
rest.  The  Gospel  which  has  brought  the  blessing 
will  do  as  much  for  each  of  those  who  bear, 
however  obliterated,  the  print- mark  of  our  race. 
"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  every  creature." 

10 


Let  us  go  Down. 

Genesis  xi.  7. 

GOD  comes  down  into  human  life.  Though 
the  world  is  corrupt  and  full  of  violence  ;  though 
His  arch-enemy  has  taught  man  to  dread  and 
hate  Him;  though  attempts  are  on  foot  to 
resist  Him  in  open  rebellion,  by  making  a  unity 
apart  from  Him,  and  in  exclusion  of  His  corner- 
stone, yet  He  comes  down. 

He  comes  dowfi  to  see. — He  will  not  pronounce 
judgment  till  He  has  satisfied  Himself  by  per- 
sonal inspection  how  things  stand.  He  comes 
down  to  our  bedrooms,  and  overhears  the  words 
we  speak,  the  deeds  we  do  there ;  to  our  home- 
life,  and  is  a  silent  listener  and  observer  of  all  its 
incidents;  to  our  shops,  warehouses,  and  bank- 
parlors,  auditing  our  accounts,  casting  up  the 
columns,  examining  our  samples,  our  weights 
and  measures,  our  advertisements  and  circulars. 
From  Him  no  secrets  are  hid. 

He  comes  down  to  punish. — *' Let  me  alone, 
that  I  may  destroy."  Never  forget  the  punitive 
side  of  God's  character.  How  easily  He  asserts 
His  power  !  He  can  disorganize  the  memory, 
breathe  on  the  brain,  touch  one  small  nerve  or 
muscle,  and  the  best-concerted  schemes  fail. 
Why  shouldst  thou  fear  every  day  the  fury  of  the 
oppressor,  when  God  is  at  thy  side  ! 

He  comes  down  to  save. — If  there  be  one  Lot, 
He  will  bring  him  forth.  What  was  the  Incar- 
nation, the  descent  to  Calvary  and  the  grave,  but 
the  coming  down  of  the  "us"  of  the  blessed 
Trinity.  He  that  ascended  is  the  same  that  also 
first  descended.  He  has  come  that  He  may  heal 
our  wounds,  take  us  in  His  arms,  and  bear  us 
with  Him  far  beyond  all  principality  and  power. 
He  is  the  way,  by  which  we  may  pass  from  the 
confusion  of  Babel  to  the  love  of  Pentecost,  and 
the  one  speech  of  heaven. 
11 


Get  thee  out. 

Genesis  xii.  i. 

NEVER  did  a  corn  of  wheat  more  utterly  fall 
into  the  ground  to  die.  It  seemed  as  though  he 
were  urgently  needed  in  his  country  and  among 
his  kindred;  but  man's  thoughts  and  ways  are 
not  God's.  The  blessing  of  Abraham's  life 
could  only  come  in  the  land  of  promise,  and 
after  he  had  died  to  the  whole  life  of  nature. 
To  every  one  who  is  to  be  richly  blessed  and 
made  a  blessing  there  is  the  inevitable  command, 
*'  Get  thee  out.     Be  willing  to  die." 

Get  thee  out  of  the  land  of  idols. — Beyond  the 
flood  of  the  Euphrates,  Terah  and  the  rest  served 
other  gods.  Had  Abram  remained  there,  he 
might  have  touched  the  unclean  thing;  hence 
God's  desire  to  get  him  beyond  the  reach  of  in- 
fection, that  he  and  his  race  might  remain 
monotheistic.  Hast  thou  had  communion  with 
darkness,  with  Belial,  with  idols?  Get  thee  out 
and  be  separate ;  touch  not  the  unclean  thing. 
Be  clean,  thou  who  art  to  bear  the  vessels  of  the 
Lord.     Reckon  thyself  to  have  died. 

Get  thee  out  in  loneliness. — "I  called  him 
alone,  and  increased  him."  If  thou  art  unwilling 
to  abide  alone,  thou  must  fall  alone  into  the 
ground  and  die.  God  must  reduce  us  to  a  min- 
imum before  He  can  work  through  us  to  the 
maximum.  But  there  is  also  no  loneliness  to  the 
soul  who  is  one  with  God.  Alone  against  the 
world,  it  is  still  in  a  majority. 

Get  thee  out  in  faith. — "He  went  out,  not 
knowing  whither."  It  was  what  man  calls  a 
venture;  but  as  he  stepped  out  on  what  seemed 
a  void,  he  found  it  rock  beneath  his  feet.  Day 
by  day  a  track  appeared  across  the  desert,  and 
all  his  needs  were  met  till  he  reached  the  place 
of  blessing.  Death  was  the  gate  of  life.  Having 
died  to  Haran,  he  began  to  bring  forth  much 
fruit  in  every  soil  of  the  world. 
12 


The  Lord  said  unto  Abram,  after  that  Lot  was 
separated  from  Jwn.  Genesis  xiii.  14. 

ABRAM'S  life  was  one  of  an  ever-perfecting 
separation.  But  out  of  these  experiences  sprang 
his  rarest  joys.  The  separate  and  obedient  soul 
may  reckon  on  : — 

Fresh  Revelatio7i, — Whenever  Abram  dared  to 
step  out  in  obedience,  the  Lord  spake  freshly  to 
him.  But  in  Egypt  we  find  no  trace  of  the 
Divine  voice.  If  God  spake  there,  it  would  be 
in  warning  and  rebuke.  Has  the  voice  of  God 
long  been  silent  to  thee — no  fresh  command,  no 
deeper  insight  into  truth  ?  See  to  it  that  thou 
art  not  in  Egypt.  Separate  thyself,  not  only 
from  Haran,  but  from  Lot ;  not  only  from  what 
is  clearly  wrong,  but  from  all  that  is  questionable ; 
and  the  Lord  will  speak  to  thee  things  it  is  not 
possible  for  men  to  utter. 

Further  Vision. — Lot  lifted  up  his  eyes  to 
espy  what  would  make  for  his  advantage  and 
well-being,  and  beheld  only  the  plain  of  Sodom, 
which  indeed  was  well-watered,  but  the  seat  of 
exceeding  sin.  But  when  Abram  lifted  up  his 
eyes,  not  to  search  out  ought  for  himself,  but  to 
see  what  God  had  prepared,  he  looked  northward, 
and  southward,  and  eastward,  and  westward — 
words  which  remind  us  of  the  length,  and 
breadth,  and  depth,  and  height  of  the  love  of 
Christ.  The  single  eye  is  full  of  light ;  the  far 
climber  gets  the  widest  horizon;  if  thou  wilt  do 
His  will,  thou  shalt  know. 

Himdredfold  Compensation. — Whatever  Abram 
renounced,  when  he  left  his  home,  or  gave  Lot 
the  right  to  choose,  he  received  back  in  the  usual 
measure  of  God,  with  an  overflowing  overplus. 
God  gave  him  the  entire  land,  including  Lot's 
portion.  We  can  never  give  up  for  God,  with- 
out receiving  in  this  life  more  than  we  gave. 
13 


God  Most  High,  Maker  of  Heaven  and  Earth. 
Genesis  xiv.  ig  (r.  V.  marg.). 

IT  was  to  Melchizedek,  the  lonely  king-priest 
living  outside  the  busy  rush  of  the  world,  that 
this  new  name  of  God  was  given.  There  are 
some  to  whom  God  gives  these  direct  revelations 
of  Himself,  that  they  may  communicate  them  to 
others.  These  are  our  seers.  This  title  for  God, 
which  Abram  immediately  appropriated,  was  the 
-source : — 

Of  Humility. — To  think  of  God  as  the  Maker 
and  Possessor  of  heaven  and  earth  induces  the 
profoundest  humility  of  heaven.  "They  cast 
their  crowns  before  the  throne,  saying,  Thou 
didst  create  all  things."  How  great  God  is! 
His  greatness  is  unsearchable.  Earth  and  heaven 
are  His  handiwork.  Take  time  to  think  of  this, 
but  never  forget  that  He  is  Love;  then,  with 
the  familiarity  of  the  child,  thou  wilt  combine 
the  lowly  reverence  of  the  creature. 

Of  Steadfastness  in  the  hour  of  tetnptation. — 
When  the  king  of  Sodom  desired  Abram  to  share 
in  the  spoils  of  the  kings,  setting  before  him  a 
most  subtle  temptation,  and  one  which  might 
have  dragged  him  from  the  life  and  walk  of  faith, 
Abram  fell  back  on  the  revelation  of  God  just 
vouchsafed  to  him,  and  said  in  effect:  "What 
need  is  there  that  I  should  do  this  thing,  or  receive 
of  thy  gold  ?  All  God  is  mine ;  in  God  all  things 
are  mine  also.  What  I  need  He  will  assuredly 
give.  What  He  withholds  I  will  receive  from  no 
other  source."  There  is  no  need  for  us  to  get 
wealth  wrongly ;   God  can  supply  all  we  need. 

Of  Security God  owns  all ;  all  the  earth  is 

His  empire  ;  wherever  we  travel  we  are  within 
His  dominion,  breathe  His  air,  are  ministered  to 
by  His  angels.  We  have  a  right  to  the  best  in 
all  good  things,  since  they  are  our  Father's,  and 
we  are  heirs  of  God,  joint-heirs  with  Christ. 
14 


Behold^  a  Sffiokuig  Furnace  and  a  Flaming  Torch. 

Genesis  xv.  ly  (r.  v.). 

FIRE  is  the  chosen  emblem  of  God ;  and  as 
these  fire-emblems  passed  slowly  between  the 
divided  carcases  it  was  as  though  God  accommo- 
dated Himself  to  the  methods  of  human  oath- 
taking,  and  solemnly  bound  Himself.  But  in  all 
His  dealings  with  us  He  is  prepared  to  be  both  a 
furnace  and  a  torch. 

God  as  a  Furnace. — Take  up  a  piece  of  iron 
ore,  and  see  how  the  metal  is  scattered  amid  com- 
moner substances.  How  can  it  be  disintegrated  ? 
The  chisel  cannot  do  it,  but  fire  will.  Plunge  it 
now  into  the  fire ;  let  it  fall  in  the  heart  of  the 
glowing  furnace,  and  presently  the  stream  of 
liquid  metal  will  issue  forth,  pure  and  beautiful. 
It  is  thus  that  God  deals  with  human  hearts ;  the 
blood  makes  propitiation,  but  the  fire  cleanses. 
The  love  of  God,  the  purity  of  God,  the  spirit- 
uality of  God  brought  home  to  us  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  search  and  try  us  to  the  innermost  fibre  of 
our  being,  and  burn  out  of  us  the  evils  which  had 
long  held  empire. 

Refining  Fire,  go  through  my  heart, 

Illuminate  my  soul ; 
Scatter  thy  life  through  every  part, 

And  sanctify  the  whole. 

God  as  a  flaj?iing  Torch. — The  torch  guides 
the  footsteps  through  the  dark ;  and  God's  Spirit 
waits  to  shed  light  on  many  dark  and  hidden 
things,  and  to  guide  us  into  all  the  truth.  It  is 
one  thing  to  comprehend  by  the  intellect ;  it  is 
altogether  another  to  apprehend  by  the  heart. 
There  is  no  such  teacher  as  God ;  and  the  mis- 
take of  our  modern  religious  life  is  to  receive  so 
much  from  man,  instead  of  waiting  in  rapt  silence 
until  God  Himself  communicates  His  truth  to  us. 
The  conditions  are  purity  of  desire,  cleanness  of 
heart,  and  willingness  to  obey. 
15 


Return  to  thy  mistress,  and  submit  thyself  tinder 
her  hands.  Genesis  xvL  g. 

POOR  Hagar !  No  wonder  that  she  fled. 
Her  proud  Arab  independence  and  the  sense  of 
coming  motherhood  made  her  rebel  against  Sarah's 
hard  dealings.  We  have  often  meditated  flight, 
if  we  have  not  actually  fled  from  intolerable  con- 
ditions. Of  course,  when  God  opens  the  door 
out  of  a  dungeon  we  need  not  hesitate,  as  Peter 
did,  to  rise  and  follow.  But  this  is  very  different 
to  flight  from  the  post  of  duty. 

Our  Cross. — For  Hagar,  Sarah ;  for  Hannah, 
Penninah;  for  David,  Joab;  for  Jesus,  Judas; 
for  Paul,  Alexander  the  coppersmith.  Life  as- 
sumes hard  and  forbidding  aspects.  Sometimes 
the  cross  is  not  a  person,  but  a  trial — the  pressure 
of  a  slow  and  lingering  disease ;  the  demand  for 
grinding  and  persistent  toil;  the  weight  of  over- 
mastering anxiety  for  those  dearer  than  life,  who 
have  no  knowledge  of  God. 

Our  Demeanor. — Return  and  submit.  We 
are  apt  to  suppose  that  we  shall  get  rest  and  peace 
elsewhere.  It  is  not  so,  however.  Nowhere  else 
shall  we  find  the  path  less  rugged,  or  the  pillow 
less  hard.  To  evade  the  yoke  will  not  give  us 
heartsease.  The  Master's  advice  is  that  we  shall 
take  His  yoke,  and  bear  it  as  He  did ;  remain 
where  God  has  put  us,  till  He  shows  us  another 
place ;  and  bear  what  He  ordains  and  permits, 
even  though  it  comes  through  the  means  of  others. 

Our  Faith. — We  cannot  patiently  submit  to 
our  lot  unless  we  believe  that  what  God  permits 
is  as  much  His  will  as  what  He  appoints.  Be- 
hind Sarah's  hard  dealings  we  must  behold  His 
permissive  providence.  Through  all  the  disci- 
pline of  life  we  must  believe  that  God  has  a  pur- 
pose of  unfailing  love  and  wisdom.  Then  our 
submission  is  not  stoicism,  but  loving  acquies- 
cence in  our  Father's  will. 
16 


Wa/k  before  Me  and  be  thou  Perfect. 

Genesis  xvii.  i. 

GOD  precedes  His  commands  with  such  reve- 
lations of  Himself,  that  obedience  is  rendered 
easily  possible.  Before  calling  Abram  to  perfec- 
tion, He  described  Himself  as  El  Shaddai,  the 
Almighty.  What  may  we  not  do  if  we  learn  to 
avail  ourselves  of  the  all-might  of  God  ?  Oh  to 
know  the  exceeding  greatness  of  His  power  toward 
us  who  believe  !  Our  lack  is  that  we  do  not 
know  our  God,  and  therefore  fail  to  perform  ex- 
ploits. **Thus  saith  the  Lord,  Let  not  the  wise 
man  glory  in  his  wisdom,  neither  let  the  mighty 
man  glory  in  his  might,  let  not  the  rich  man 
glory  in  his  riches :  but  let  him  that  glorieth 
glory  in  this,  that  he  understandeth  and  knoweth 
Me."  Lie  on  thy  face,  and  let  God  talk  with 
thee,  and  tell  thee  the  conditions  on  which  He 
will  make  thee  exceeding  fruitful.  First —  Walk 
before  Me:  Second — Be  thou  whole-hearted. 

There  must  be  ivholeness  in  our  surrefider. — 
No  part  of  our  nature  barred  or  curtained  off  from 
God.  Every  chamber  must  be  freely  placed  at 
His  disposal;  every  relationship  placed  under 
His  direction  ;  every  power  devoted  to  His  serv- 
ice.    All  we  have  and  are  must  be  entirely  His. 

There  must  be  wholeness  t?i  our  intention. — The 
one  aim  of  our  Lord  was  to  bring  glory  to  His 
Father ;  and  we  should  never  be  satisfied  till  we 
are  so  absolutely  eager  for  the  glory  of  Christ 
that  we  would  seek  it  though  at  the  cost  of  in- 
famy to  ourselves ;  and  be  as  glad  for  another  to 
bring  it  to  Him,  as  we  should  be  in  bringing  it 
ourselves. 

There  must  be  ivholeness  i?i  our  obedience. — It 
was  clearly  so  with  Abram.     As  soon  as  God  left 
talking  with  His  servant,  he  took  Isaac  and  per- 
formed the  rite  which  had  just  been  enjoined. 
17 


And  Abraham  drew  near. 

Genesis  xviii.  2j. 

THE  patriarch's  attitudes  are  well  worthy  of 
note:  he  sat  (i),  bowed  (2),  ran  (7),  stood  by 
(8),  went  with  them  (16),  stood  before  the  Lord 
(22;  ;  here,  he  drew  near. 

He  drew  near  with  awful  reverence. — "  I  have 
taken  upon  me  to  speak  unto  the  Lord,  which  am 
but  dust  and  ashes."  The  place  whereon  he 
stood  was  holy  ground ;  and  if  he  trod  or  crossed 
it,  in  the  intensity  of  his  desire,  he  never  forgot 
that  the  most  intimate  fellowship  of  man  with 
God  must  be  mingled  with  the  reverence  of  godly 
fear,  which  remembers  that  He  is  a  consuming 
fire. 

He  drew  near  in  faith. — He  had  enjoyed  a 
blessed  prevision  of  the  day  of  Christ.  There 
had  been  revealed  to  Him  that  one  perfect  and 
sufficient  Sacrifice,  in  virtue  of  which  sinners  are 
welcome  to  draw  near  to  God.  They  have  bold- 
ness to  enter  the  holiest,  and  draw  near  with  a 
true  heart  in  full  assurance  of  faith,  who  know 
the  new  and  living  way  which  Jesus  has  opened 
for  us. 

He  drew  near  as  intercessor. — We  never  get 
so  near  God  as  when  we  plead  for  others.  At 
such  times  we  enter  the  holiest  and  innermost 
chamber,  and  talk  to  Him  with  an  urgency  which 
we  dare  not  use  for  ourselves.  Whilst  the  Syro- 
phenician  pleaded  for  her  daughter,  she  came  to 
the  very  feet  of  Jesus.  Wouldst  thou  know  the 
inner  chamber  ?  Go  thither  on  errands  for  oth- 
ers. 

He  drew  near  in  intensity. — When  Haman 
pleaded  for  his  life,  he  fell  on  the  Queen's  couch 
in  the  anguish  of  his  soul.  Sometimes  God  ap- 
pears to  hesitate;  it  is  only  to  draw  us  on,  ever 
further  and  deeper,  till  we  awake  to  find  ourselves 
alone  in  His  presence. 

18 


Abraham  got  up  early  to  the  place  where  he  stood 
before  the  Lord,  and  looked.  Gen.  xix.  2^. 

THERE  was  not  much  sleep  that  night  for 
this  loyal  heart  1  With  the  spring  of  day  he  was 
where,  probably,  Lot,  years  before,  had  looked 
on  the  face  of  the  country,  and  beheld  it  as  a 
garden  of  the  Lord.  But  how  great  the  con- 
trast !  The  smoke  of  the  land  went  up  as  the 
smoke  of  a  furnace  ! 

Have  a  place  where  you  stand  before  God. — It 
may  not  always  be  to  speak  to  Him,  but  to  be 
spoken  to,  to  be  judged,  to  have  the  motives  and 
intentions  of  the  heart  winnowed  and  sifted.  Well 
is  it  to  stand  each  day  before  the  judgment-seat 
of  Christ,  and  to  receive  His  verdict  on  our  in- 
nermost life.  Oh  that  the  grass  of  that  trysting- 
place  may  be  well  worn  through  our  frequent 
intercourse  with  our  beloved  Lord  ! 

Follow  up  your  prayers. — Abraham  was  not 
content  with  shooting  arrows  into  the  air;  he 
followed  them  to  see  how  they  sped,  and  where 
they  fell.  We  do  not  need  to  reiterate  our  peti- 
tions with  unbelieving  monotony,  as  though  they 
were  not  safe  in  God's  keeping ;  but  we  should 
remind  Him  by  our  upward  look  that  our  expec- 
tation is  from  Him. 

View  the  fate  of  the  ungodly  from  God  s  stand- 
point.— We  are  apt  to  consider  it  from  that  of  our 
own  pity,  or  commiseration,  or  tolerance  of  short- 
coming. We  judge  lightly,  because  we  dread  too 
searching  a  judgment  on  ourselves.  But  we  need 
sometimes  to  see  sin  as  God  sees  it.  Stand  on 
Calvary  and  learn  what  sin  is,  and  how  much  it 
has  cost  the  Saviour.  There,  too,  you  will  learn 
that  God  goes  further  than  His  servants*  prayers. 
Though  He  may  not  be  able  to  discover  the  ten, 
yet  He  will  deliver  the  one  righteous  man.  "  His 
countenance  doth  behold  the  upright." 
19 


I  also  withheld  theefj'om  simmig  agai7ist  Me. 

Getiesis  xx.  6. 

AS  we  review  our  lives,  we  can  see  many  occa- 
sions on  which  our  feet  had  well-nigh  gone — our 
steps  were  on  the  very  brink  of  the  precipice. 
Another  inch,  and  we  should  have  brought  shame 
on  Christ  and  lasting  remorse  to  ourselves.  To 
what  can  we  attribute  our  escape  but  to  the  grace 
of  God,  which  withheld  us,  even  though  we  failed 
to  recognize  it  ? 

He  does  not  withhold  usfrofn  temptation. — He 
could  not  do  so  without  serious  and  permanent 
loss.  The  waves  of  ink  will  surge  up  against  the 
white  marble  palace  of  the  soul.  To  us,  as  to 
our  Lord,  fresh  from  under  the  opened  heavens, 
the  tempter  will  come.  What  the  fire  is  in  fixing 
the  color  on  the  porcelain  vase,  that  temptation 
is  in  rendering  permanent  the  lessons  and  im- 
pressions made  by  God's  providence  and  grace. 

He  does  not  withhold  tis  from  occasio7is  in 
which  it  would  be  easy  to  transgress. — Abime- 
lech  was  not  hindered  from  taking  Sarah  into  his 
palace.  The  door  of  occasion  and  opportunity 
stood  open  before  him  ;  but  he  was  withheld  from 
the  fatal  act.  We  must  never  infer  that  occasion 
confers  license.  The  fact  of  an  opportunity  be- 
ing present  does  not  warrant  indulgence  in  wrong- 
doing. 

If  God  withheld  Abimelech,  who  did  not  seek 
His  special  help,  how  much  7nore  those  that  seek 
Him  ! — You  are  not  insensible  of  the  perils  of 
your  life ;  but  wait  earnestly  and  persistently  on 
God.  Are  you  more  eager  to  be  kept  than  He  to 
keep?  Did  He  not  implant  that  desire?  Will 
He  not  do  exceeding  abundantly  above  what  we 
ask  or  think?  Is  not  the  good  Shepherd  strong 
enough  to  keep  one  poor  trembling  sheep?  Be- 
gone, unbelief !  My  God  whom  I  serve  is  able 
to  deliver,  and  He  will !  (Dan.  iii.  17). 
20 


Afid  God  opened  her  eyesy  and  she  saw. 

Genesis  xxi.  ig. 

POOR  Hagar  !  There  was  no  help  for  it ;  and 
she,  who  a  little  before  had  thought  she  was  giv- 
ing Abraham  his  heir,  found  herself  and  her  boy- 
homeless  wayfarers  on  the  desert  sands.  Their 
one  need  was  water ;  they  little  deemed  it  was  so 
near.  No  need  to  create  a  new  fountain,  but  to 
open  their  eyes.  We  need  the  opened  eye  to 
see : — 

The  finished  work  of  Christ. — The  work  of 
propitiation  for  sin  is  complete.  We  are  not  re- 
quired to  add  to  it  one  tear,  or  prayer,  or  vow. 
"It  is  finished."  To  go  to  heaven  to  bring 
Christ  down,  or  to  the  deep  to  bring  Him  up,  is 
alike  superfluous.  All  we  need  is  the  opened  eye 
to  see  what  Jesus  has  done,  and  recognize  that 
it  is  all  that  was  demanded  to  meet  the  claims  of 
God's  holy  law. 

The  things  freely  given  to  tis  of  God. — God 
hath  given  us  in  Jesus  all  things  that  pertain  to 
life  and  godliness.  There  is  no  possible  gift  or 
grace,  in  which  we  are  deficient,  that  is  not  stored 
in  Him,  in  whom  the  fullness  of  God  abides.  But 
we  are  blind  ;  the  eyes  of  our  heart  have  not  been 
opened  to  see  the  hope  of  our  calling,  the  riches 
of  our  inheritance,  the  greatness  of  God's  power. 
Did  we  know  these  things,  surely  not  a  moment 
would  elapse  without  our  availing  ourselves  of 
God's  rich  provision. 

The  alleviations  which  God  provides  against 
excessive  sorroiu. — Hagar's  anguish,  as  Mary's 
at  the  sepulchre  in  after  years,  blinded  her  to 
available  comfort.  So  grief  puts  a  bandage  over 
our  eyes.  Life  is  sad,  and  lonely,  and  dark,  but 
God  is  near ;  and  if  you  ask,  He  will  show  springs 
of  consolation,  of  which  you  may  drink.  There 
is  no  desert  without  its  springs;  no  dying  child 
without  the  angel  of  the  Lord. 
21 


Jehovah-Jlreh ;  In  the  Mount  of  the  Lord  it 
shall  he  provided.  Genesis  xxii.  14  (R.  v.). 

ABRAHAM  knew  it  would  be.  Probably  he 
never  told  Sarah  what  God  had  asked  of  him  till 
he  and  the  lad  were  safely  back  in  the  tent.  What 
need  to  trouble  her  ?  Her  weak  faith  could  not 
have  stood  the  ordeal.  It  was  with  an  unfalter- 
ing tone  that  the  patriarch  told  his  young  men 
that  they  two  would  presently  return.  Even 
though  he  should  actually  take  Isaac's  life,  he 
was  sure  that  he  would  receive  him  again  from 
the  altar  in  health.  It  was  only  at  the  very  last 
moment  that  God  indicated  the  ram  as  the  suffi- 
cient substitute.  So  God's  deliverances  always 
come ;  they  are  provided  in  the  mount  of  trial 
and  sacrifice. 

When  the  foe  seems  secure  of  victory. — So  it 
was  with  Israel.  Pharaoh,  with  his  hosts,  counted 
on  an  easy  victory,  the  precipices  around,  the 
sea  in  front.  To  the  eye  of  sense  it  seemed  im- 
possible to  escape  :  all  hope  died.  It  was  just 
then  that  the  Almighty  cleft  a  path  through  the 
mighty  deep. 

"///  the  fourth  hour  of  the  nights — Strength 
was  well-nigh  exhausted  in  long  battling  with 
the  waves.  For  hours  the  disciples  with  diffi- 
culty had  kept  themselves  afloat.  It  seemed  as 
if  they  must  give  in  through  physical  collapse. 
It  was  then  that  the  form  of  Jesus  drew  nigh  unto 
the  ship. 

On  the  night  before  execution. — Thus  Peter  lies 
sleeping  whilst  the  Church  is  gathered  in  prayer. 
To-morrow  he  will  be  a  corpse.  But  the  angel 
comes  then  to  open  the  prison  doors. 

So  you  may  have  come  to  an  end  of  your  own 
strength,  and  wisdom,  and  energy.  The  altar, 
wood,  and  fire  are  ready,  the  knife  upraised, 
your  Isaac  on  the  point  to  die:  but  even  now 
God  will  provide.  Trust  Him  to  indicate  the 
way  of  escape. 


/  am  a  Stranger  and  a  Sojourner. 

Genesis  xxiii.  4. 

THE  minute  details  of  this  purchase  are  re- 
corded to  emphasize  the  fact  that,  though  the 
whole  land  was  Abraham's  by  the  Divine  gift, 
he  would  not  enter  on  its  possession  till  God's 
time  was  come.  We  may  be  sure  of  certain 
blessings — ours  in  God's  safe  keeping — though 
they  are  withheld  till  the  moment  that  His  wis- 
dom sees  best.  It  was  a  touching  confession. 
The  aged  patriarch  had  for  long  years  owned  no 
settled  dwelling-place.  After  years  in  the  land 
of  promise  he  was  still  without  land  enough  for 
a  grave. 

Faith  cannot  be  satisfied  with  the  things  of  this 
world. — The  sons  of  Heth  had  goods  and  lands, 
but  Abraham  did  not  envy  them  ;  he  had  caught 
a  glimpse  of  the  city  which  hath  foundations, 
and  this  so  satisfied  and  attracted  him  that  he 
had  no  desire  for  aught  that  Palestine  could  yield. 

Faith  detaches  us  from  the  present. — We  are 
content  to  dwell  in  tents,  because  here  we  have 
no  abiding-place.  The  shows  and  vanities  of  the 
world,  in  comparison  with  the  vision  of  eternal 
realities,  are  as  the  glare  of  the  streets  compared 
with  the  steady  glory  of  the  constellations  of  the 
night. 

Faith  prompts  to  co?fessio?i. — It  bewrayeth  it- 
self. We  should  be  careful  and  orderly  in  our 
business  arrangements;  but,  in  our  dealings  with 
our  fellows,  in  our  justice,  fairness,  honor,  the 
lightness  of  our  hold  on  the  present  world,  we 
should  make  it  manifest  that  we  are  seeking  a 
country  not  our  own. 

Faith  ca7inot  be  ashamed. — The  God  who 
prompted  it  must  satisfy  it,  else  He  would  have 
reason  to  be  ashamed  of  having  failed  the  souls 
tliat  trusted  Him.  But  now  He  is  not  ashamed 
to  be  called  our  God,  because  He  has  prepared 
for  us  a  city. 

23 


My  Master  Abraham. 

Genesis  xxiv.  12. 
THIS  worthy  man,  Eliezer,  the  steward  of 
Abraham's  house,  was  almost  garrulous  about  his 
master.  Count  up  the  number  of  times  in  which 
he  contrives  to  bring  in  the  two  words,  "  my 
master."  We  may  learn  from  him  how  to  speak 
of  our  Master,  whenever  we  get  the  opportunity. 
"Rabboni,  which,  being  interpreted,  is,  My 
Master." 

We  too  can  speak  of  the  Lord  God  as  our  Mas- 
ter.— The  servant  did  not  know  Jehovah  directly  ; 
it  was  enough  that  he  had  seen  and  heard  Abra- 
ham pray  to  Him.  This  encouraged  him  to 
draw  near  for  himself.  So  we  are  emboldened 
to  draw  near,  because  God  is  the  God  and  Father 
of  our  Master  Jesus.  We  love  Him  that  was  be- 
gotten, and  are  attracted  to  Him  of  whom  Jesus 
said,  "1  ascend  to  my  Father,  and  your  Father; 
to  my  God,  and  your  God." 

We^  too,  can  plead  for  our  Master'' s  sake. — 
When  asking  for  good  speed  to  be  sent  to  him- 
self, he  alleged  as  his  plea  that  it  would  be 
showing  kindness  to  his  master  Abraham.  So 
when  we  ask  great  things  from  God,  we  can  plead 
in  the  name  of  Jesus,  and  urge  that  in  answering 
our  petition  God  will  be  showing  kindness  to  His 
Well-beloved. 

We,  too,  should  bless  in  our  Master's  name. — 
When  the  answer  was  given,  this  reverent  soul 
gave  thanks  as  though  the  favor  had  been  shown 
to  his  master.  Indeed,  all  through  his  inter- 
course with  Bethuel  and  Laban  he  seems  to  have 
lost  his  identity  in  Abraham.  He  could  talk  of 
nothing  else  but  that  one  scheme  ;  was  only  eager 
to  carry  his  point  for  his  master's  sake ;  and  when 
the  errand  was  done,  longed  only  to  get  back  to 
his  master's  side.  It  is  a  beautiful  lesson  for 
those  who  call  Jesus  Master  and  Lord. 
24 


And  he  sold  his  Birthright. 

Genesis  xxv.  jj. 

EVERY  one  is  born  with  a  birthright,  which 
the  devil  tries  hard  to  make  him  barter  away  for 
a  mess  of  pottage.  In  that  birthright  are  in- 
cluded :  — 

hinocence  and  purity. — The  child  of  the  vilest 
ancestry  enters  this  world  unsullied  by  the  filthy 
touch  of  unclean  habit.  But  how  eager  Satan  is 
to  induce  us  to  part  with  this  for  his  unsatisfying 
pleasure. 

The  love  of  our  kind. — Few  are  the  children, 
of  all  the  myriads  of  our  race,  that  are  not  loved 
by  some  fond  heart.  In  some  cases  the  infant 
life  is  cradled  in  love.  But  Satan  is  glad  when 
he  can  get  the  soul  to  break  away  from  all  earthly 
affection,  which  might  possibly  soften  and  refine 
it,  and  to  renounce  mother,  sister,  wife,  child, 
for  the  drunkard's  cup,  the  wanton's  kiss. 

The  redemption  of  Jesus  Christ. — Every  one 
is  born  into  a  redeemed  world ;  the  propitiation 
of  the  blessed  Lord,  the  blood  that  flowed  on 
Calvary,  the  cancelment  of  the  effects  of  Adam's 
sin,  are  for  all.  As  all  the  world  was  affected 
by  Adam's  sin,  so  all  are  included  in  God's  love 
in  Jesus.  But  again  Satan  is  eager  to  induce  men 
to  abjure  and  cast  away  these  benefits  ;  he  blinds 
the  eyes  of  those  that  believe  not,  so  that  they 
refuse  to  ''behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  which 
taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world." 

The  grace  of  the  Spirit. — Every  one  may  build 
up  a  strong  and  beautiful  character  by  yielding 
to  the  Holy  Ghost's  gracious  promptings.  That 
grace  knocks,  like  sunshine,  at  the  windows  of 
every  soul ;  but  how  often  it  is  sold  for  a  mess  of 
pottage  !  The  choice  between  these  two  is  con- 
stantly being  presented  to  us.  God  help  us  al- 
ways to  choose  the  divine,  the  spiritual,  the  eter- 
nal! 

25 


Because  that  Abraham  obeyed  My  Voice  and  kept 
My  Charge.  Genesis  xxvi.  5. 

IT  is  awful  to  realize  how  our  sins  may  repeat 
themselves  in  our  children.  Here  is  Isaac  fol- 
lowing in  the  precise  steps  of  Abraham,  who  had 
acted  in  a  similar  manner  toward  Sarah  when  en- 
tering Egypt.  In  each  case  there  was  a  sad  lapse 
of  faith;  but  it  was  even  worse  for  Isaac,  with 
Abraham's  example  to  warn  him.  But  a  man 
may  pass  blessings  on  to  his  children,  as  well  as 
the  sad  entail  of  evil  habits. 

He  leaves  the  blessing  of  the  divine  covefiant. — 
God  had  entered  into  covenant  with  Abraham, 
and  was  prepared  to  fulfill  its  provisions  to  his 
son.  *'  I  will  be  a  God  to  thee,  and  to  thy  seed 
after  thee."  So  a  godly  ancestor  may  be  able  to 
secure  for  all  his  seed  a  share  in  the  divine  grace 
and  favor.  The  spirit  that  is  put  on  him  does 
not  depart  from  his  seed,  or  his  seed's  seed  for- 
ever. 

The  blessing  of  his  prayer. — It  is  impossible  to 
over-estimate  the  effect  of  a  good  man's  prayers ; 
they  are  as  streams  or  trees,  which  go  on  flowing 
and  bearing  fruit  long  after  they  were  originated. 
The  legacy  of  a  good  man's  prayers  is  of  price- 
less worth.  He  may  have  long  since  passed  to 
his  rest ;  but  God  remembers  them,  and  answers 
them  in  blessings  to  the  next  generation.  How 
often  in  this  chapter  we  read  that  "God  blessed 
Isaac." 

The  blessing  of  a  noble  naine. — We  may  all 
leave  that,  if  we  can  transmit  nothing  else.  To 
have  had  a  father  that  knew  God,  walked  with 
God,  pleased  God ;  who  was  on  intimate  terms 
with  Him,  and  could  speak  to  Him,  as  a  man 
with  his  friend — illumined  the  ordinary  nature 
and  existence  of  Isaac  with  unearthly  beauty. 
Let  us  live  so  that  our  children  may  be  ranked 
as  nobles,  because  they  bear  our  name. 
26 


Esau  cried  with  an  exceeding  great  and  hitter 
Cry.  Genesis  xxvii.  J4. 

ON  this  incident  the  writer  to  the  Hebrews 
founds  the  impressive  lesson,  that  the  choices  of 
the  past  may  cast  a  bitter  and  irrevocable  shadow 
on  all  our  future.  When  he  afterward  desired  to 
inherit  blessing  he  was  rejected ;  for  he  found  no 
place  of  repentance,  though  he  sought  it  dili- 
gently with  tears  (Heb.  xii.  16,  17,  r.  v.). 

Beiaare  of  the  cravings  of  appetite. — In  an 
evil  moment  Esau  yielded  to  these,  and  sold  his 
birthright  to  secure  their  gratification ;  he  found 
afterward  that  the  choice  made  in  that  hour  was 
irrevocable.  How  needful  that  we  watch  and 
pray,  lest  we  fall  into  temptation  ! 

There  are  four  facts  which,  when  borne  in 
mind,  guard  us  against  the  sudden  oversetting  of 
passionate  appetite. 

We  were  once  dead  in  sins. — Surely  we  do  not 
want  to  go  back  again  to  the  charnel-house  with 
its  corruption. 

We  died  for  sins  in  the  person  of  Christ  our 
Representative. — In  Him  we  have  met  the  de- 
mands of  God's  holy  law ;  but  surely  that  must 
be  an  awful  thing  which  cost  our  Saviour  so 
dearly. 

We  died  to  sin  with  the  Lord  Jesus. — We  have 
passed  with  Him  on  to  Resurrection  ground  ;  so 
that  we  belong  to  the  new  heavens  and  new  earth, 
wherein  dwelleth  righteousness. 

We  are  called  on  to  reckon  ourselves  dead  in 
sin. — The  nearer  we  live  to  God,  the  more  sensi- 
tive we  shall  be  to  the  most  distant  suggestion  of 
evil,  closing  doors  and  windows  against  its  en- 
trance, reckoning  ourselves  "not  at  home  "  to 
it,  and  yielding  our  members  as  instruments  of 
righteousness  unto  God. 
27 


Behold  a  Ladder  set  up  on  the  Earthy  and  the  top 

of  it  reached  to  Heaven.  Genesis  xxviii.  12. 

ALL  men  feel  that  earth  and  heaven  touch  at 
the  horizons  of  the  distant  past  and  future;  but 
we  ought  to  feel  that  the  present  moment  of  time 
and  this  bit  of  the  world's  surface  are  linked 
with  heaven.  This  is  what  the  ladder  meant  for 
Jacob.  The  moorland  waste,  where  he  lay,  and 
Laban's  home,  whither  he  journeyed,  were  as 
near  God  as  his  father's  tent.  Earth  is  linked 
with  heaven: — 

By  Gods  daily  providence. — His  loving  eye  is 
ever  upon  us,  His  ears  always  open  to  our  cry, 
and  His  angels  go  to  and  fro  on  our  world  per- 
forming ceaseless  ministries. 

By  our  Saviour^ s  mediatio7i. — As  He  intimated 
to  Nathanael,  His  own  nature  as  uniting  God 
with  man,  and  especially  His  Ascension  glory  as 
the  man  Christ  Jesus,  is  the  one  great  connecting 
link.  "  Hereafter  ye  shall  see  heaven  open,  and 
the  angels  of  God  ascending  and  descending 
upon  the  Son  of  Man." 

By  daily  fellowship  a7id  holy  thought. — We 
should  practice  the  sense  of  God's  presence,  often 
stopping  ourselves  amid  our  ordinary  avocations 
and  interests  to  say,  aloud  when  possible,  •'  God 
is  near,  God  is  here."  Li  all  likelihood  we  are 
daily  living  amid  the  glories  of  the  eternal 
world  ;  but  our  eyes  are  blinded.  Oh  that  by 
humility  and  purity  we  may  become  more  sensi- 
tive, and  awake  to  the  things  that  are  unseen  and 
eternal !  Lord,  open  our  eyes,  that  we  may  see  ! 
(2  Kings  vi.  17). 

By  holy  yearning. — When  Jesus  ascended.  He 
unrolled  a  path  behind  Him,  along  which  we 
shall  one  day  travel  to  meet  Him.  Hope  treads 
that  glorious  Ascension  ladder;  and  as  she  does 
so,  again  we  see  the  heaven  opened,  and  our  des- 
tiny unfolded  at  Christ's  right  hand. 
28 


But  a  few  days,  for  the  love  he  had. 

Genesis  xxix.  20. 
THAT  touch  is  enough  !  We  can  fill  in  all 
the  rest.  This  old-world  love  was  of  the  same 
quality  as  our  own.  Oh,  blessed  God  1  what  a 
priceless  inheritance  this  is !  Time  itself  never 
tedious,  but  always  too  short;  labor  never  hard  ; 
distance  never  long;  sacrifice  unheard  of,  the 
word  almost  in  disuse — where  Love  is  queen. 
This  is  how  we  would  feel  to  our  dear  Lord  :  so 
that  the  missionary  away  from  home  and  friends, 
as  well  as  the  invalid  suffering  for  Jesus,  might 
feel  years  of  loneliness  and  pain  but  a  few  days, 
for  love  of  the  beloved  Master.  We  may  acquire 
such  love  thus  : — 

Meditate  much  on  the  love  of  Jesus. — Sit  with 
the  Apostle  beneath  his  cross,  and  say,  each  time 
with  deeper  appreciation :  He  loved  fne,  He  gave 
Himself  for  7fie.  Do  not  think  of  your  love  to 
Him,  but  of  His.  It  is  well  to  take  the  Lord's 
Supper  frequently,  as  affording  opportunities  for 
remembering  His  dying  love. 

Be  071  the  alert  to  detect  His  love  in  daily 
providence  and  trifles. — It  is  amazing  how  much 
is  ever  being  arranged  by  His  tender  thoughtful- 
ness  to  alleviate  and  brighten  our  lot.  If  you 
cannot  detect  it,  dare  still  to  believe  it. 

Ask  the  Holy  Spirit  to  breathe  His  love  into 
your  heart. — He  that  is  joined  to  the  Lord  is  one 
spirit ;  and  when  the  doors  are  open  between  Christ 
and  the  soul,  the  aroma  of  His  love  freely  enters. 

Show  His  love  to  every  one. — Whether  you 
like  people  or  not,  do  to  them  as  He  would  do ; 
let  His  love  flow  through  you  to  them  ;  what  we 
manifest  to  others  for  His  sake,  we  shall  come  to 
feel  toward  Him,  and  them  also.  "  This  com- 
mandment have  we  from  Him,  That  he  who 
loveth  God  love  his  brother  also." 
29 


The  Lord  has  blessed  me  for  thy  sake. 

Genesis  xxx.  sy. 

LABAN  requested  the  longer  stay  of  Jacob  be- 
cause he  felt  sure  that  the  Divine  blessings  had 
been  brought  by  him  into  his  home.  It  was  a 
selfish,  low  motive  for  desiring  the  postpone- 
ment of  his  departure  ;  and  Laban  was  destined, 
alas !  to  be  terribly  undeceived.  He  would 
wake  up  one  day,  to  find  that  during  his  sojourn 
with  him,  and  under  the  cloak  of  religion,  Jacob 
had  been  ruthlessly  plundering  his  property.  It 
was  a  shameful  betrayal  of  trust  on  Jacob's  part ; 
and  it  conveys  a  searching  warning  to  those  who, 
because  of  their  religious  professions,  are  trusted 
by  their  relatives  or  others  :  — 

With  their  property. — Always  do  the  best  pos- 
sible for  your  employer  or  friend,  who  has  en- 
trusted his  interests  to  you,  acting  toward  him 
as  the  servant  and  steward  of  God.  Bear  in 
mind  that  God  has  bidden  you  undertake  the 
office  for  Himself,  and  accepts  your  fidelity  as 
rendered  to  Him  :  He  will  recompense. 

With  their  fri7idship. — Be  very  careful  here. 
God  puts  us  into  one  another's  lives,  that  we 
may  be  the  medium  through  which  His  love  and 
tenderness  may  enter  them  ;  but  there  is  such 
danger  of  our  monopolizing  for  ourselves  the 
place  He  would  fill.  Sometimes  we  almost  un- 
consciously deteriorate  rather  than  elevate  our 
friends  by  the  intrusion  of  our  own  personality. 

With  their  Christian  instruction  and  training, 
— Ministers  of  God's  holy  gospel  must  specially 
guard  against  the  tendency  to  make  name,  fame, 
money,  out  of  a  position  which  they  should 
occupy  only  as  God's  stewards.  There  is  such 
subtleness  in  the  temptation  to  attract  men  to 
ourselves,  instead  of  attaching  them  to  Christ. 


30 


Take  heed  to  thyself  that  thou  speak  not  to  Jacob 
either  good  or  bad.  Gen.  xxx.  24  (r.  v.). 

THIS  visitation  of  God  made  a  deep  impres- 
sion on  Laban.  He  refers  to  it  afterward  as  re- 
straining him  from  injuring  his  runaway  son-in- 
law.  Jacob,  too,  was  struck  by  it.  It  is  very 
wonderful  to  find  the  Holy  God  casting  the 
mantle  of  His  protection  around  this  crafty  and 
deceitful  soul.  No  doubt  it  was  due  to  His  cove- 
nant relationship  with  the  family  and  race,  of 
which  Jacob  was  a  most  unworthy  member  (13, 
42).  But  if  God  thus  interposed  for  Jacob,  will 
He  not  much  more  interpose  for  those  who  de- 
sire to  be  His  obedient  children  ? 

God  will  lay  an  arrest  on  your  persecutors. — 
Israel  was  rebuked  because  the  exiles  in  Babylon 
thought  they  would  perish  before  a  man  that 
could  die,  and  the  son  of  man  who  was  as  grass, 
and  forgot  their  Maker,  the  Lord  of  heaven  and 
earth.  All  around  you  the  fire  may  rage;  but 
you  shall  walk  amid  it  unscathed,  if  only  you 
trust.  No  weapon  formed  against  you  shall 
prosper. 

God  will  lay  an  arrest  on  trial. — His  finger  is 
always  on  our  pulse;  and  the  moment  the  pain 
becomes  more  than  we  can  bear.  He  will  stay  it. 
His  eye  is  ever  upon  His  own. 

God  ivill  lay  an  arrest  on  the  poiver  of  the  evil 
one. — We  shall  not  be  tempted  beyond  that  we 
are  able  to  bear.  There  is  always  a  thus  far  and 
no  farther.  **The  Lord  maketh  a  way  in  the 
sea,  and  a  path  in  the  mighty  waters."  The 
Only-begotten  of  the  Father  keeps  the  sheep 
whom  His  Father  has  entrusted  to  Him.  Not 
one  of  them  can  be  devoured  by  the  lion  of  hell. 
If  only  we  believed  this,  we  should  be  calmer, 
happier,  even  though  circumstanced  as  Jacob. 
No  need  to  altercate  with  Laban,  but  to  look  be- 
yond him  to  the  "  Fear  of  Isaac." 
31 


He  touched  the  Hollow  of  his  Thigh, 

Genesis  xxxii.  23. 

OUR  greatest  victories  are  wrought  out  through 
pain,  and  purchased  at  the  cost  of  the  humbhng 
of  the  flesh.  Jacob  learned  that  the  secret  of 
prevailing  with  God  and  man  was  not  in  the 
strengtli,  but  in  the  weakness  and  suffering  of 
the  flesh.  It  must  ever  be  so.  The  victor  Lamb 
bears  still  the  scars  of  Calvary,  and  appears  as 
one  who  had  been  slain. 

Had  Laban  met  Jacob  that  morning,  he  would 
have  pointed  to  that  limp  as  an  indication  of 
God's  wrath  and  displeasure;  but  if  he  had 
looked  into  his  face,  he  would  have  seen  all  its 
hardness  and  cunning  gone,  and  would  have 
been  arrested  by  the  unwonted  tenderness  in  his 
voice. 

The  shrunken  sineiv  counteracts  pride. — So 
high  a  spiritual  achievement  as  to  prevail  with 
God  might  have  tempted  Jacob  to  arrogance  and 
self-esteem.  But  God  anticipated  the  possible 
temptation  by  this  physical  infirmity,  which  was 
constantly  present  to  Jacob's  consciousness. 

The  shrunken  sijieiv  was  the  secret  of  victory. — 
Had  it  not  been  shrivelled  by  the  angel's  touch, 
Jacob  would  have  continued  to  resist  in  the  pride 
of  his  strength,  and  would  never  have  clung  con- 
vulsively to  the  angel,  crying,  '<I  will  not  let 
thee  go."  It  was  only  in  that  act  that  he  became 
Israel,  the  Prince. 

The  shrunken  sinew  makes  us  think  little  of 
this  7vorld  and  much  of  the  next. — From  this 
moment  Jacob  takes  up  more  of  the  pilgrim  atti- 
tude. He  finds  that  for  him,  at  least,  the  pace 
will  have  to  be  slower;  but  it  is  well,  for  he  re- 
laxes his  hold  on  the  seen  to  entwine  more  tena- 
ciously about  the  unseen.  "  The  days  of  the 
years  of  my  pilgrimage  " — such  is  his  epitome  of 
his  life. 

32 


/  will  lead  on  softly  .  .  .   Until  I  come  unto  my 
lord  unto  Seir.  Genesis  xxxiii.  14. 

THIS  was  rather  unworthy  of  the  man  who, 
the  night  before,  had  seen  the  face  of  God,  and 
learned  to  prevail.  The  man  who  had  seen  God, 
and  prevailed,  was  doubtful  of  His  newly-given 
blessing  !  He  did  not  realize  that  it  would  carry 
him  through  the  difficulty  that  threatened  him. 
He  had  not  as  yet  learned  to  apply  it  to  every 
emergency.  It  is  a  solemn  lesson  to  those  who 
have  passed  through  some  rapturous  experience. 

After  blessings  often  trial. — When  the  fair 
colors  have  been  laid  on,  the  vessel  is  plunged 
into  the  furnace,  that  they  may  be  burned  in. 

The  trial  freqicently  presents  itself  ifi  the  home 
or  ordinary  life. — Some  are  led  into  the  wilder- 
ness to  be  tempted  ;  but  more  often  it  is  the  con- 
tact with  our  Esaus  that  furnishes  us  with  the  su- 
preme test  of  the  worth  of  what  we  have  re- 
ceived. 

Failure  comes  from  not  reckoning  on  God. — 
Jacob  looked  at  Esau's  four  hundred  armed  men, 
and  compared  his  own  following  with  despair. 
So  Peter  looked  at  the  winds  and  waves.  At 
such  times  we  must  fail,  if  we  rely  on  schemes 
or  plans,  instead  of  saying,  God  is. 

Oh  for  the  peace  that  flovveth  as  a  river, 

Making  Hfe's  desert  places  bloom  and  smile  ; 

Oh  for  the  faith  to  grasp  Heaven's  bright  '<  forever" 
And  the  shadow  of  earth's  «« little  while." 

We  must  act  faith. — If  Jacob  had  refused  to 
use  this  subterfuge,  and  had  spoken  simply  and 
manfully,  he  would  have  found  that  Esau  would 
have  acquiesced  and  left  him.  The  angels  who 
had  gone  forward  to  deal  with  him  (Gen.  xxxii. 
2)  had  done  their  work  effectively,  and  God  had 
changed  his  purpose. 

33 


Ye  have  troubled  me  to  make  me  to  stink  amofig 
the  Inhabitants  of  the  Land.       Genesis  xxxiv.  jo. 

THE  Bible  does  not  hesitate  to  hold  the  mir- 
ror up  to  our  fallen  nature,  or  show  us  what  we 
are.  Here  is  Israel,  the  prince  with  God,  who 
had  power  with  man,  in  a  very  sorry  plight. 
His  children  had  involved  him  in  it ;  but  first, 
he  had  involved  them. 

Dinah. — Little  did  she  realize  all  the  evil 
which  that  visit  of  hers  would  bring  on  her  peo- 
ple and  on  those  whose  guest  she  was.  What 
took  her  there  ?  Had  her  upbringing  been  un- 
necessarily strict,  and  did  she  want  a  little  more 
freedom  ?  There  is  an  inevitable  rebound  with 
young  people  to  the  other  extreme,  if  needless 
severity  has  been  brought  to  bear  on  them  in 
their  early  days. 

The  probability,  however,  is  that  the  laxity  of 
her  father's  home,  and  the  effect  of  her  mother's 
gods,  had  made  the  line  of  separation  a  very  faint 
one,  and  she  felt  no  difficulty  in  overstepping  it. 

Simeon  and  Levi. — *'Ye  have  made  me  to 
stink."  On  his  dying  bed  Jacob  remembered 
this  treacherous  cruelty  and  pronounced  their 
scattering  in  Israel ;  though  Levi  undid  the  effect 
of  that  bitter  curse  by  his  obedience  and  devo- 
tion. In  after  days  it  was  said,  **  My  covenant 
was  with  him  of  life  and  peace,"  and  though 
scattered,  he  was  as  salt.  In  Simeon's  case  the 
curse  was  not  cancelled  by  any  subsequent  mani- 
festation of  obedience  and  devotion,  and  ran  out 
its  course.  There  is  encouragement  and  warn- 
ing here. 

Jacob. — The  real  mistake  of  it  all  was  that 
Jacob  bought  that  land,  and  settled  too  near  the 
city  (xxxiii.  i8).  As  a  pilgrim  he  had  no  right 
to  do  this.  If  Christian  parents  will  settle  down 
in  fellowship  with  the  world,  they  have  them- 
selves to  thank  for  all  the  misery  which  accrues  to 
themselves  and  children,  and  the  dishonor  to  God. 
34 


Arise,  go  up  to  Bethel,  and  dwell  there. 

Genesis  xxxv,  i. 

GOD  had  set  His  hand  to  make  Jacob  a  saint. 
He  had  given  him  a  glimpse  of  His  ideal  at  the 
Jabbok  ford,  but  his  nature  was  not  then  capable 
of  taking  in  the  Divine  conception ;  and,  as  we 
have  seen,  both  in  his  subterfuge  to  Esau  and  his 
settling  outside  Shechem,  he  had  fallen  back  into 
the  schemer  and  money-maker.  In  this  chapter 
God  uses  several  methods  of  awakening  and  re- 
newal. 

The  Divine  summons. — ''Arise,  go  up  to 
Bethel."  He  had  been  in  the  lowlands  too  long : 
too  long  had  he  "lain  among  the  pots."  The 
voice  of  God  spoke  words  of  resurrection  life 
into  his  grave,  as  afterward  into  that  of  Lazarus. 

The  power  of  old  association. — What  memories 
clustered  around  that  name  and  place  of  Bethel  ! 
It  recalled  his  distress  and  fear ;  the  angel-ladder, 
and  the  comforting  assurance  which  had  inspired 
him  with  new  hope.  Directly  he  heard  it,  he 
seemed  to  have  felt  the  incongruity  of  the  life 
that  was  being  lived  in  his  camp,  and  he  said  to 
his  people,  * '  Put  away  the  strange  gods.  .  . 
Arise,  let  us  go  up  to  Bethel,  and  I  will  make 
there  an  altar  unto  God." 

A  fresh  revelation. — God  appeared  to  him 
again.  For  long  there  had  been  no  vision  of 
God ;  but  now  that  the  idols  were  put  away,  his 
eyes  were  opened  to  see  Him  who  had  been  be- 
side him  amid  all  his  backslidings. 

Death. — Deborah,  the  beloved  Rachel,  the  old 
father — one  after  another  were  taken  from  him ; 
and  there  came  the  far-away  look  into  his  eyes 
which  showed  that  he  had  imbibed  the  pilgrim- 
spirit  and  had  become  Israel  the  Prince.  So  God 
stripped  him  that  he  might  be  better  able  to  run 
the  race  set  before  him. 

35 


The  Kings  that  reigned  in  Edom   before  there 
reigned  any  King  over  Israel.    Genesis  xxxvL  ji. 

APPARENTLY  Esau  had  the  best  and  happi- 
est lot. 

What  he  escaped. — For  him  there  were  no  few 
and  evil  days  of  pilgrimage  ;  nor  the  pressure  of 
famine;  nor  the  going  down  into  Egypt;  nor 
the  forty  years  of  wanderings  in  the  desert ;  nor 
the  vicissitudes  of  the  Judges,  All  these  he  es- 
caped— and  must  have  congratulated  himself 
merrily.  But  he  had  no  vision  of  God ;  no  com- 
munion with  Jehovah  ;  no  contact  with  the  mes- 
sengers of  heaven. 

WJiat  he  e?2Joyed. — A  line  of  dukes ;  a  royal 
dynasty,  which  was  old  when  Israel's  first  king 
ascended  the  throne ;  a  rich  and  fertile  territory ; 
peace  and  comfort.  He  reminds  us  of  the 
Psalmist's  picture  of  the  man  of  this  world, 
whose  portion  is  in  this  Hfe,  and  who  is  filled 
with  hid  treasure.  But  Esau  never  awoke  satis- 
fied with  God's  likeness;  nor  ever  enjoyed  the 
blessedness  of  the  man  who  is  "  a  prince  with 
God." 

How  he  bore  hiinself. — His  heart  was  gener- 
ous, full  of  good  nature,  jovial,  and  free-handed. 
When  the  land  could  not  bear  both  Jacob  and 
himself,  he  went  off  into  another,  and  settled 
down  in  Mount  Seir.  It  was  no  hardship  with 
him  to  leave  the  land  of  promise.  Most  would, 
doubtless,  have  preferred  his  society  to  Jacob's  ; 
but  God  did  not  (Mai.  i.  2,  3).      . 

What  made  the  lot  of  these  brothers  so  differ- 
ent. — The  one  lived  for  the  world  ;  the  other  was 
a  citizen  of  the  heavenly  Jerusalem,  a  pilgrim  to 
the  City  of  God.  The  one  was  an  ordinary  man 
of  the  world ;  the  other  had  been  selected  of 
God  as  the  channel  of  blessing  to  mankind.  The 
flower  and  fruit  which  are  to  be  propagated  re- 
quire the  special  attention  of  the  gardener's 
knife.  What  solemn  words  !  (Amos  iii.  2). 
36 


They  took  him  a7id  cast  him  into  a  pit. 

Genesis  xxxvii.  24. 

IT  is  impossible  to  read  this  inimitable  story 
without  detecting  in  the  water-mark  of  the  paper 
on  which  it  is  written  the  name  Jesus.  Indeed, 
we  lose  much  of  the  beauty  and  force  of  these 
early  Scriptures  if  we  fail  to  observe  the  refer- 
ences to  the  life,  character,  and  work  of  the 
blessed  Redeemer.  Notice  some  of  these  pre- 
cious analogies  : — 

Our  Saviour's  shepherd-heart  (2). 

The  love  of  the  Father  before  the  worlds  were 
made  (3). 

The  dreams  of  empire,  which  are  so  certainly 
to  be  realized,  when  we  shall  see  Him  acknowl- 
edged as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords  (7). 

Envied  by  His  brethren,  to  whom  He  came, 
though  they  received  Him  not  (n). 

His  alacrity  to  do  His  Father's  will,  and  to 
finish  His  work,  in  which  will  we  too  have  been 
sanctified  (13). 

Cast  into  the  pit  of  the  grave,  as  a  seed-corn 
into  the  ground  to  die,  that  He  might  not  abide 
alone,  but  bear  much  fruit  (24). 

The  thirty  pieces  of  silver  for  which  He  was 
betrayed  (28). 

The  indifference  of  the  Jewish  people  to  their 
great  Brother's  fate  (25). 

Rejected  of  the  Jew,  and  turning  to  the  Gen- 
tile (28). 

The  bitter  grief  which  His  rejection  has 
brought  on  the  Jewish  people  (35). 

It  is  as  though  the  Holy  Ghost,  eager  to 
glorify  the  Lord,  could  not  wait  for  the  slow  un- 
folding of  history,  but  must  anticipate  the  story 
of  that  precious  life  and  death  which  were  to 
make  the  world  new  again. 


37 


Jiidah. 

Genesis  xxxviii.  i. 

THIS  was  the  destined  heir  of  the  birthright 
of  which  Reuben  had  shown  himself  unworthy ; 
and  yet  this  chapter  is  a  dark  story  of  his  un- 
bridled passion.  O  my  soul,  remember  that  the 
possibilities  of  all  these  sins  are  latent  in  thee  ! 
Thou  mightest  have  been  as  one  of  these  men  or 
women  but  for  the  grace  of  God. 

There  is  nothing  so  absolutely  priceless  as  the 
white  flower  of  a  pure  and  blameless  life.  The 
pure  in  heart  are  the  children  of  the  presence- 
chamber — entrusted  with  secrets  hidden  from  the 
wise  and  prudent — vessels  by  which  God  does 
not  hesitate  to  quench  the  thirst  of  men,  because 
the  water  of  the  crystal  river  will  not  be  diluted 
or  contaminated  by  contact  with  their  natures. 
Above  all  other  gifts,  covet  that  of  a  cleansed 
heart.  You  may  be  very  conscious  of  tempta- 
tion, and  that  naturally  you  are  no  better  than 
others,  and  yet  if  you  will  constantly  live  in  the 
Spirit,  and  walk  in  the  Spirit,  you  will  be  kept 
absolutely  pure ;  and  the  sea  of  ink  that  is 
sweeping  through  the  world  will  leave  no  stain 
on  you. 

The  blood  clean s eth :  *' The  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ,  His  Son,  cleanseth  us  from  all  sin"  (i 
John  i.  7). 

The  Saviour  keepeth  :  *'  The  Lord  is  faithful, 
who  shall  stablish  you,  and  keep  you  from  evil" 
(2  Thess.   iii.  3). 

The  Spirit  filleth  :  *'  Know  ye  not  that  your 
body  is  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is 
in  you,  which  ye  have  of  God,  and  that  ye  are 
not  your  own?  "  (2  Cor.  vi.  19). 

God  can  take  in  hand  the  Judahs  amongst  us, 
and  so  deal  with  them  as  to  produce  such  a 
character  as  is  forthshadowed  in  chap.  xlix.  8. 


38 


Holu   can   I  do   this  great  wickedness  and  sin 
against  God  ?  Genesis  xxxix.  g. 

WHAT  a  contrast  between  this  chapter  and 
the  former  :  that,  like  a  Rembrandt  background, 
throws  up  the  bright  colors  of  this.  Where  the 
older  brother  fell,  the  younger  stood  victoriously  ; 
and  the  light  of  God  shone  on  the  young  heart, 
so  that  even  the  dungeon  gloom  could  not  ex- 
tinguish it.  Who  does  not  know  what  it  is  to  be 
misunderstood,  misrepresented,  accused  falsely, 
and  punished  wrongfully  ?  Yet  God  reigns  :  and 
in  His  own  time  ''He  shall  bring  forth  thy 
righteousness  as  the  light,  and  thy  judgment  as 
the  noonday." 

God  allows  strength  to  be  tested. — We  do  not 
know  what  we  are,  or  where  we  stand,  till  we  are 
compelled  to  choose.  Insensibly  character  is 
ever  forming — unconsciously  we  are  taking  sides ; 
but  the  testing-hour  that  compels  us  to  declare 
ourselves  causes  the  solution  suddenly  to  crystal- 
lize, and  we  know  ourselves  in  our  choice.  The 
man  who  has  chosen  the  pure  and  good  once, 
will  choose  them  more  easily  next  time ;  and  at 
each  choice  will  become  stronger. 

God  allows  virtue  to  be  maligned. — In  all 
Egypt  there  was  not  a  purer  soul,  and  yet  Joseph 
lay  under  a  terrible  imputation;  but  he  com- 
mitted his  cause  to  God,  sure  that  He  would  not 
leave  him  in  Hades ;  and  the  time  came  when 
the  King's  word  cleared  him,  and  he  stood  forth 
vindicated.  ''Fret  not  thyself.  Rest  in  the 
Lord,  and  wait  patiently  for  Him." 

God  allows  conscie?itionsness  to  be  ill-repaid. 
— Of  what  avail  that  he  had  so  well  cared  for  his 
master's  goods?  Ah,  but  that  dungeon  was  the 
subterranean  passage  to  a  throne ;  and  through 
those  fetters  iron  entered  into  that  young  soul. 
We  all  need  more  iron  in  our  blood  ! 
39 


Wherefore  look  ye  so  sadly  to-day  ? 

Genesis  xl.  7. 

WE  may  learn  from  Joseph  the  true  method  of 
bearing  grief.  Joseph  might  have  become  moody 
and  sullen,  absorbed  in  his  own  misfortunes,  and 
pessimistic  about  the  course  of  human  life.  How 
far  removed  from  all  this  was  his  behavior  ! 

He  filled  his  time  with  ministry, — The  captain 
of  the  guard  charged  him  with  two  state-prison- 
ers, and  he  ministered  unto  them.  A  new  inter- 
est came  into  his  life,  and  he  almost  forgot  the 
heavy  pressure  of  his  own  troubles  amid  the  in- 
terest of  listening  to  the  tales  of  those  who  were 
more  unfortunate  than  himself.  Do  not  nurse 
your  grief  in  lonely  brooding  :  arise  and  minister 
to  some  one  ;  do  something  in  the  world  ;  exert 
yourself  to  alleviate  the  sufferings  of  those  close 
by  your  side,  Avho  have  not  so  clear  a  conscience 
or  so  bright  a  trust  in  God. 

He  was  quick  to  sympathize  and  comfort. — 
Quick  to  notice  traces  of  sorrow,  because  he  had 
sorrowed ;  able  to  sympathize,  because  he  had 
wept ;  adept  at  comforting,  because  he  had  been 
comforted  of  God.  We  gain  comfort  when  we 
attempt  to  comfort.  Out  of  such  intercourse  we 
get  what  Joseph  got — the  key  which  will  unlock 
the  heavy  doors  by  which  we  have  been  shut  in. 
Light  a  fire  in  another's  heart,  and  your  own 
heart  will  be  warmed. 

He  kept  his  faith  in  God. — Depression,  captiv- 
ity, loneliness,  separation  from  those  he  loved, 
could  not  quench  his  faith  in  God.  Still  God 
was  near  and  precious  to  him.  The  stifling  dark- 
ness and  oppression  of  the  prison  were  irksome 
to  the  free  child  of  the  camp ;  but  God  was  as 
near  as  in  Jacob's  tent.  There  is  no  evil  to  them 
that  love  God  ;  and  the  believer  loses  sight  of 
second  causes  in  the  contemplation  of  the  un- 
folding of  the  mystery  of  his  Father's  will. 
40 


//  is  not  in  me  ;   God  shall  give. 

Genesis  xli.  i6. 

IT  is  beautiful  to  notice  Joseph's  reverent  ref- 
erences to  God  in  his  first  interview  with  Pha- 
raoh. When  the  heart  is  full  of  God,  the  tongue 
will  be  almost  obliged  to  speak  of  Him ;  and  all 
such  references  will  be  easy  and  natural  as  flow- 
ers in  May. 

These  words  might  have  been  uttered  by  the 
Lord  Jesus.  They  are  so  perfectly  in  harmony 
with  the  tenor  of  His  life.  He  loved  to  say  that 
His  words,  and  works,  and  plans,  were  not  His 
own,  but  the  Father's.  Once,  when  a  ruler 
called  Him  good.  He  reminded  him  that  only 
One  was  good,  and  that  all  goodness  was  derived 
from  God.  Men  knew  little  enough  of  Jesus,  be- 
cause He  sought  ever  to  be  a  reflecting  mirror  for 
His  Father,  and  to  glorify  Him  on  the  earth. 
But  the  Spirit  reveals  Him  to  those  that  love. 

These  words  might  have  been  the  Apostle 
Paurs.  He  delighted  to  say  that  he  worked,  yet 
not  he,  but  the  grace  of  God  in  him ;  that  he 
lived,  yet  not  he,  but  Christ  in  him;  that  he 
knew  and  spake  the  mysteries  of  God,  yet  not  he, 
but  the  Spirit  of  God. 

Thus  we  should  speak.  Our  light  must  so 
shine  that  men  may  turn  from  us  to  Him  from 
whom  we  have  derived  it.  Whenever  the  temp- 
tation arises  to  revert  on  ourselves,  to  attract  men 
to  ourselves,  to  lead  them  to  think  that  we  can 
meet  their  need,  let  us  count  ourselves  dead  to 
the  suggestion,  saying,  "It  is  not  in  me;  God 
shall  give"  (Acts  iii.  12).  What  strength  and 
comfort  come  into  our  hearts,  in  view  of  demands 
which  are  too  great  for  our  weak  nature  to  meet. 
*  *  It  is  not  in  me  ;  God  shall  give. ' '  If  our  hearts 
were  inditing  a  good  matter,  they  would  boil 
over,  and  we  should  speak  more  frequently  of  the 
things  that  touch  our  King. 

41 


The  man  spake  roughly  to  us. 

Genesis  xlii.  ja 

HE  spake  roughly  y  but  he  did  not  feel  so. — 
When  he  had  spoken  in  these  harsh  tones,  he 
restored  their  money ;  turned  aside  to  weep  (24)  ; 
and  did  his  best  to  alleviate  the  toils  of  travel. 
So  sometimes  God  seems  to  deal  harshly,  and 
speak  roughly  ;  but  there  is  no  change  in  the  ten- 
der love  of  His  heart.  It  costs  Him  immeasur- 
ably more  than  it  does  us.  Often  when  some 
unusual  severity  has  been  evinced,  if  we  could 
but  see  His  face,  it  would  be  full  of  pity,  pain, 
and  pleading  on  our  behalf.  He  feels  yearnings 
over  us  which  He  restrains,  and  dares  not  betray 
till  the  work  of  conviction  is  complete. 

He  spake  roughly  to  aivaken  conscience. — It 
had  slept  for  twenty  years.  They  had  almost 
forgotten  that  scene  at  the  pit's  mouth  ;  but  as  he 
repeated  their  tones,  and  words,  and  treatment, 
it  all  came  back  again,  and  they  cried,  "We  are 
verily  guilty  concerning  our  brother."  There 
must  be  repentance  and  confession  before  God 
can  take  us  to  His  heart.  We  must  confess  the 
wrongs  done  to  our  Brother  in  heaven  and  our 
brothers  on  earth  ;  and  many  of  the  roughnesses 
of  God's  Providence  are  intended  to  awaken  us, 
and  bring  our  sin  to  remembrance. 

He  spake  roughly  to  test  them. — How  did  they 
feel  toward  each  other :  was  there  rivalry,  or  bit- 
terness, or  angry  feeling?  Beneath  his  biting 
words,  Joseph  would  mark  their  behavior  !  Would 
they  disown  each  other,  or  cling  to  one  another? 
There  was  an  opportunity  for  their  doing  one  or 
the  other ;  and  he  was  glad  to  notice  how  their 
love  approved  itself.  So  we  are  led  over  stony 
roads,  that  God  may  know  wliat  is  in  our  hearts. 
He  gives  us  opportunities  of  showing  our  real 
feeling  toward  our  brothers,  that  He  may  test  our 
love  toward  Himself. 

42 


Every  inaii^s  money  was  in  the  month  of  his  sack. 

Genesis  xliii.  2J. 

JOSEPH,  who  gave  corn  to  save  his  own 
brethren  and  the  Gentiles  from  starvation,  is  a 
type  of  Him  who  gives  the  bread  of  life  to  Jew 
and  Greek — to  all  that  hunger  and  come  to  Him 
for  supplies.  And  in  this  return  of  the  full  money 
in  the  sack's  mouth,  we  are  reminded  that  salva- 
tion and  satisfaction  are  all  of  grace.  They  are 
without  money  and  without  price.  Whatever  we 
yield  to  Him,  He  returns  in  full  weight. 

We  bring  Him  works  of  merit  as  a  price  of  our 
pardon  ;  but  they  are  not  noticed. 

We  bring  Him  emotion,  tears,  anguish  of  soul; 
but  He  will  have  none  of  them. 

We  bring  Him  our  faith  as  a  price,  instead  of 
as  a  hand  that  accepts ;  and  He  refuses  it. 

How  many  are  our  mistakes  and  misunder- 
standings !  Yet  He  does  not  for  that  reason 
withhold  His  blessed  gift.  We  get  the  corn  as 
an  act  of  His  free  grace ;  and  afterward  He  ex- 
plains why  it  was  that  our  careful  dues  were  not 
accepted. 

There  is  bread  enough  in  God  to  supply  every 
mouth  of  desire  and  hunger  in  your  soul.  You 
may  have  it  for  the  seeking.  The  law  is — ask, 
and  have.  What  if  you  have  no  money  with 
which  to  purchase,  no  earnestness,  no  merit ! 
Nevertheless  the  best  wheat  of  heaven  may  be 
yours.  Our  Father's  love  is  constantly  devising 
means  of  expressing  itself.  It  puts  money  into 
our  sacks ;  it  invites  us  to  its  home,  and  spreads 
banquets  before  us ;  it  inclines  stewards  to  meet 
us  peacefully ;  it  washes  our  feet ;  it  takes  a  ten- 
der interest  in  those  we  love;  it  wishes  us  grace 
from  God ;  it  adjusts  itself  to  our  temperaments 
and  puts  us  at  our  ease,  so  that  gleams  of  light  as 
to  the  love  of  Jesus  strike  into  our  hearts  ! 


43 


And  I  said,  Surely  he  is  torn  in  pieces. 

Genesis  xliv.  28. 

THESE  are  words  caught  from  his  Father's 
mouth  by  Judah  ;  and  here  repeated,  in  his  most 
pathetic  intercession,  with  the  hope  of  softening 
the  Governor's  heart,  and  moving  him  to  spare 
Benjamin  at  least.  They  are  very  sad,  and,  with- 
out doubt,  justified  by  the  vision  of  that  blood- 
stained coat.  Yet  there  was  another  interpreta- 
tion to  the  sad  and  dark  suggestion  which  it 
made :  Joseph  was  alive,  and  they  were  soon  to 
know  that  it  was  he  with  whom  they  were  deal- 
ing, and  that  he  was  conducting  them  through 
these  strange  experiences. 

We  are  often  tempted  to  judge  hastily,  and  by 
appearances ;  by  our  own  despondent,  sorrowful 
hearts ;  or  by  the  reports  of  others.  We  may  say 
that  certain  things  are  against  us,  when,  if  we 
would  only  look  beyond  appearances  and  circum- 
stances to  God,  we  should  find  that  He  had  been 
working,  and  was  working,  mightily  on  our  be- 
half— that  all  was  for  our  lasting  good. 

Do  not  say  that  you  have  lost  your  Joseph ;  he 
lives,  and  will  yet  be  a  comfort  to  you.  He  was 
taken  from  you  for  a  little,  to  bring  blessing  to 
your  whole  family,  but  to  be  given  back  to  you, 
more  yours  than  ever. 

Do  not  look  on  the  sad,  but  on  the  bright  side 
of  God's  Providence.  All  things  are  working  for 
the  best.  "  In  all  these  things  is  the  life  of  the 
spirit."  Do  not  judge  Him,  or  try  to  understand  ; 
be  still  and  trust.  You  will  some  day  be  ashamed 
of  your  little  faith. 

Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 
And  scan  his  work  in  vain, 

God  is  His  own  interpreter, 
And  He  will  make  it  plain. 


44 


God  did  send  me  before  you. 

Genesis  xlv.  j*. 

THERE  was  great  delicacy  in  Joseph's  com- 
mand, "  Cause  every  man  to  go  out  from  me." 
He  did  not  want  to  expose  his  brethren ;  yet  he 
wanted  to  say  words  which  could  not  be  under- 
stood by  the  curious  courtiers.  Then  he  made 
himself  known,  and  said,  "  Be  not  grieved,  nor 
angry,  for  God  did  send  me  before  you."  This 
was  not  only  a  kind  way  of  alleviating  their  re- 
morse and  sorrow,  but  was  the  standpoint  from 
which  Joseph  was  wont  to  review  his  life-course. 
It  was  his  habit  to  trace  the  working-out  of  God's 
plan,  and  the  interposition  of  His  Providence 
amid  and  through  the  malevolence  and  treachery 
of  men  (1.  20). 

This  was  also  David* s  habit,  who,  in  the  curs- 
ing of  Shimei  and  the  revolt  of  Absalom,  saw 
the  evolution  of  God's  permissive  purposes. 

Thus  also  Jesus  spoke,  when  anticipating  the 
coming  of  Judas  to  betray  Him.  "  The  Son  of 
Man  goeth,  as  it  was  written  of  Him."  "The 
cup  that  My  Father  giveth  Me  to  drink." 

It  is  one  of  the  inexplicable  mysteries  of  Provi- 
dence that  bad  men  subserve  God's  purposes  and 
unwittingly  execute  His  plans.  It  is  not  for  us 
to  explain  it,  but  to  consider  the  perplexities  and 
disaster  which  we  suffer  at  the  hands  of  evil  men 
as  being  permitted  by  God  for  the  furtherance  of 
some  Divine  and  hidden  purpose.  Paul's  prayer 
that  he  might  preach  the  Gospel  at  Rome  was 
fulfilled  through  the  hatred  of  the  Jews ;  and  he 
went  to  Rome  at  the  Emperor's  expense.  We 
may  comfort  ourselves  whenever  the  storm  is 
high,  that  God  is  at  the  helm,  and  is  making  the 
wrath  of  man  praise  Him,  whilst  the  remainder 
of  it  shall  be  restrained.  Yes,  Joseph,  God  is 
sending  you  through  that  pit  and  prison  :  but 
there  is  a  way  out  into  sunlight. 

45 


Fear  not  to  go  down  into  Egypt. 

Genesis  xlvi.  j. 

PROBABLY  the  old  man,  remembering  the 
experiences  of  Abraham,  was  very  fearful  to  ad- 
venture himself  into  Egypt.  Besides,  was  it  not 
as  though,  in  going  thither,  he  renounced  the 
Land  of  Promise?  Therefore  this  special  bid- 
ding and  assurance  were  the  more  necessary. 

When  our  heart  misgives  us,  let  us  look  out 
for  one  of  God^s  fear-nots. — His  eye  is  ever 
upon  the  righteous,  and  His  ear  open  to  their 
cry.  One  upward  glance  or  tremulous  prayer 
will  make  Him  ride  on  a  cherub  to  our  side,  and 
whisper,  "Be  not  afraid;  fear  not,  I  am  with 
thee." 

God^s  promises  are  fulfilled  in  most  unex- 
pected ways. — He  had  always  foretold  that  the 
seed  of  Abraham  should  outnumber  stars  and 
sands;  but  who  would  have  supposed  that  the 
promise  would  be  realized  amid  the  pressure  and 
persecution  of  Egypt  ?  Yet  so  it  happened.  "  1 
will  there  make  of  thee  a  great  nation."  We 
must  not  judge  after  the  sight  of  our  eyes,  nor 
act  on  what  is  known  as  our  common  sense; 
faith  is  led  by  very  uncommon  paths.  Trust  and 
obey  ! 

God^s  presence  in  Egypt  acted  as  an  antidote 
to  its  evil,  and  delivered  from  its  tyrant^ s  grasp. 
— Ah,  my  soul,  thou  mightest  descend  without 
fear  into  hell  itself  if  God  said,  ''  I  will  go  down 
with  thee,  and  will  surely  bring  thee  up  again." 
The  Divine  Presence  is  strength  to  the  fearful — 
security  and  consolation  in  life,  peace  in  death. 
It  was  probably  thus  that  the  Father  spake  to  the 
Son  by  the  lips  of  the  Angel  in  Gethsemane  : 
"Fear  not  to  go  down  into  the  grave:  I  will 
surely  bring  thee  up  again."  Thus  He  speaks  to 
us.  He  is  with  us,  and  will  deliver. 
46 


Thou   hast  saved  our  lives  ;  .   .   .    We  will  be 
Pharaoh' s  servants.  Geyiesis  xlvii.  2^. 

NOTHING  less  would  have  extorted  such  an 
acknowledgment  from  those  proud  Egyptians. 
They  were  willing  to  serve  their  saviour.  No 
doubt,  had  there  been  no  provision  made  by  Jo- 
seph, the  streets  would  have  been  filled  by  emaci- 
ated skeletons  picking  their  way  feebly  amid  the 
heaps  of  the  dying  and  the  dead.  Gratitude 
brought  them  into  the  dust  before  him  who  held 
the  keys  of  the  granaries. 

The  kingdom  of  Christ  is  a  matter  of  supreme 
importance  to  individuals  and  the  world. — He  is 
not  ambitious  of  power  for  its  own  sake ;  but 
that  He  may  be  able  to  exercise  it  more  fully  for 
our  benefit,  and  that  He  may  finally  render  up 
the  kingdom  to  God,  even  His  Father,  that  God 
may  be  all  in  all.  He  will  never,  therefore,  be 
perfectly  satisfied  till  He  has  triumphantly  en- 
tered all  closed  gates,  as  King. 

His  kingdom  is  giveti  Him  by  the  glad  choice 
of  those  who?n  He  had  blessed  and  saved. — The 
song  of  heaven  reflects  this  thought :  "  Thou  art 
worthy,  ...  for  thou  wast  slain."  His  empire 
depends  on  the  sacrifice  by  which  He  has  saved 
a  multitude  whom  no  man  can  number.  Medi- 
tate much  on  the  love  of  Calvary,  and  you  too 
will  feel  that  His  empire  should  begin  with  your 
heart,  and  hasten  to  subdue  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world. 

When  He  becomes  kingj  He  still  further 
blesses  us. — The  first  hour  of  Joseph's  supreme 
power  was  the  beginning  of  Egypt's  brightest 
days.  The  Egyptians  could  not  do  so  well  for 
themselves  as  he  for  them.  We  shall  never  know 
the  real  blessedness  of  living,  its  peace  and  joy 
and  strength,  till  we  have  utterly  surrendered  to 
Christ's  supremacy.  To  serve  such  a  Master  ut- 
terly is  to  drink  of  the  river  of  perfect  blessed- 
ness. 

47 


Behold^  thy  son  Joseph  cometh. 

Genesis  xlviii.  2. 

HOW  needful  Joseph  was  to  Jacob !  The 
aged  patriarch  could  not  die  without  seeing  him. 
His  presence  lit  the  dark  valley.  His  hands 
closed  the  tired  eyes  of  the  aged  pilgrim.  And 
Joseph  was  as  quick  to  come  at  the  first  intima- 
tion of  his  father's  desire  to  see  him.  There 
was  a  perfect  sympathy  and  reciprocity  between 
them,  just  as  there  may  be  between  Christ  and 
those  who  owe  all  to  Him. 

Jesus  is  ever  leading  us  on  to  new  and  deeper 
experiences. — In  no  true  life  is  stagnation  admis- 
sible. So  the  nest  is  constantly  being  stirred  up, 
and  the  trumpets  sounded  for  the  striking  of  our 
tents.  But  there  is  a  Divine  motive  in  it  all. 
Jesus  cannot  rest  satisfied  with  less  than  the  best 
for, those  He  loves,  as  Joseph  could  not  permit 
Jacob  to  remain  in  Canaan  whilst  Goshen  with 
its  plenty  awaited  him. 

In  all  the  new  experiences  Jesus  meets  us. — 
When  his  father  entered  Egypt,  Joseph  was  wait- 
ing for  him.  When  he  was  summoned  to  stand 
before  Pharaoh,  Joseph  brought  him.  When  he 
lay  a-dying,  Joseph  was  at  his  side  to  receive  his 
last  commissions.  So,  trembling  soul,  if  Jesus 
presses  you  into  the  unknown.  He  does  not  leave 
you  there,  but  keeps  coming  again,  meeting  you 
at  every  point  of  anxiety  and  distress.  Yea,  He 
does  what  Joseph  could  not  do.  He  stands,  not 
on  this  side  only,  but  on  the  other  side,  of  death. 
Here  to  calm  with  His  benediction  ;  there  to  re- 
ceive into  His  glory. 

Jesus  is  careful  for  body  as  well  as  soul.  — 
The  dying  man  was  anxious  about  the  disposal  of 
his  body,  and  Joseph  readily  undertook  to  see  it 
buried  in  Machpelah's  cave.  So  Jesus  cares  for 
us.  He  is  the  Saviour  of  the  body  in  this  life 
and  in  the  resurrection. 

48 


Until  Shiloh  cotne^  and  tmto  Him  shall  the  obedi- 
ence of  the  peoples  be.  Genesis  xlix.  lo  (r.  v.). 

OLD  experience  is  said  to  attain  to  something 
of  prophetic  strain ;  but  there  is  more  than  old 
experience  here.  From  these  aged  lips  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  speaking. 

The  mission  afid  work  of  Jesus  are  designated, 
— He  is  Shiloh — the  Maker,  Giver,  and  Bringer 
of  Peace.  The  troubled  conscience,  smitten 
with  conviction,  finds  peace  when  He  reveals 
His  all  sufficient  sacrifice  and  atonement.  The 
discordant  elements  within  us  settle  into  a  great 
calm  when  He  enters  to  reign,  bringing  every 
thought  into  captivity  to  His  rule.  Nor  is  His 
work  for  individuals  only ;  it  is  for  man,  for  the 
world,  the  universe.  Peace  was  made  at  His 
cross;  it  is  proclaimed  by  His  Spirit;  and  it  will 
be  consummated  when  God  is  AH  in  all. 

The  time  of  His  advent  predicted. — Not  till  the 
Romans  came  and  annexed  Palestine  as  one  of 
the  provinces  of  the  empire,  did  the  semblance 
of  the  Hebrew  monarchy  expire.  And  it  was 
then  that  the  Shiloh  came.  Surely  these  words 
must  often  have  been  quoted  by  the  pious  Jews, 
with  whom  Simeon  and  Anna  consorted,  as 
pointing  to  the  near  advent  of  the  Messiah.  Let 
us  be  wise  to  discern  the  symptoms  of  His  second 
advent. 

The  inevitableness  of  His  dominion. — Ah, 
Saviour,  it  is  predicted  that  all  peoples  shall  obey 
Thee ;  and  we  know  well  that  it  is  only  through 
obedience  that  men  can  enter  into  Thy  peace. 
Teach  us  to  obey,  to  do  all  Thy  commands,  to 
bear  all  Thy  burdens,  to  wait  before  Thee,  that 
thus  we  may  know  the  peace  that  passeth  all  un- 
derstanding. 

Ponder  this  well,  O  my  soul ;   the  Peace-giver 
must   be   obeyed.     Only  so   can   He   give  thee 
peace  that  floweth  as  a  river. 
49 


God  7neant  it  for  good. 

Genesis  i.  20  (R.  V,). 

GOD'S  deeper  meanings  I  We  are  apt  to  see 
a  malicious  meaning ;  are  we  equally  apt  to 
detect  the  Divine  and  benevolent  one?  Our 
enemies  are  many,  and  they  hate  us  with  perfect 
hatred;  they  are  ever  laying  their  plots,  and 
working  their  unholy  purposes.  But  there  is  a 
greater  and  wiser  than  they,  who,  through  all 
these  plottings,  is  prosecuting  His  Divine  pur- 
pose. There  is  another  and  deeper  meaning  than 
appears  to  the  short  sight  of  sense. 

Let  us  believe  that  there  is  a  Divine  and  deeper 
meaning  in  the  adversities  of  our  lives. — Joseph 
might  be  forgiven  for  not  doing  so;  but  with  his 
history  and  that  of  many  others  before  us,  we 
have  no  excuse  for  despair  in  the  face  of  crush- 
ing sorrow.  Whether  it  comes  from  man  or 
devil,  all  creatures  are  under  the  Divine  control, 
holding  to  our  lips  cups  which  the  Father's  hand 
has  mixed.  He  has  no  complicity  with  their 
evil,  but  they  unconsciously  perform  His  will. 
Even  if  you  cannot  see  the  Divine  meaning,  dare 
to  believe  that  it  is  there. 

Await  the  disclosures  of  time. — Even  here  we 
sometimes  reach  an  eminence  from  which  we  de- 
tect the  meaning  of  the  path  by  which  we  have 
been  conducted.  It  may  have  been  rough  and 
circuitous,  but  there  was  reason  in  it  all.  Often 
God  rewards  patient  trust  by  allowing  us  to  see 
and  know. 

A?td  for  the  full  revelation  of  eternity. — One 
day  God  will  call  us  to  His  side  in  the  clear 
light  of  eternity,  and  will  explain  His  meanings 
in  life's  most  sorrowful  experiences ;  and  we  shall 
learn  that  we  suffered,  not  for  ourselves  only,  but 
for  others,  and,  as  part  of  His  great  remedial 
scheme,  *'  to  save  much  people  alive." 
50 


The  more  they  afflicted  them,  the  more  they  multi- 
plied. Exodus  i.  12. 

IT  was  a  very  unequal  struggle  on  which 
Pharaoh  had  entered ;  for  he  opposed  not  the 
Hebrews,  but  Jehovah.  It  is  thus  that  the  great 
ones  of  this  world  have  ever  spoken  and  acted. 
"  Let  us  build  a  tower  ;  "  "  Let  us  break  their 
bands  asunder,  and  cast  away  their  cords  from 
us."  "Against  Thy  holy  child  Jesus,  both 
Herod  and  Pontius  Pilate  were  gathered  to- 
gether." In  every  case.  He  that  sits  in  the 
heavens  has  laughed  at  the  boast  of  human  pride. 
His  cause  and  His  people's  are  one.  Yet  times 
of  affliction  have  always  been  on  times  of  multi- 
plication. 

In  the  history  of  the  Church. — When  has  she 
made  her  greatest  number  of  adherents  ?  When 
her  pulpits  have  been  filled  with  eloquent 
preachers,  and  her  aisles  crowded  with  fashion 
and  wealth  ?  No ;  but  when  she  has  been  driven 
to  the  dens  and  caves  of  the  earth,  and  her  sons 
have  been  proscribed  outcasts.  The  real  triumphs 
of  the  early  Church  were  in  the  first  centuries  of 
opprobrium  and  persecution  ;  her  decline  began 
when  Constantine  made  Christianity  the  religion 
of  the  State. 

In  the  history  of  each  earnest  soul. — It  is 
rarely  the  case  that  wc  make  much  spiritual  head- 
way when  winds  and  currents  favor  us.  We  do 
best  when  all  is  against  us.  We  grow  quickest 
in  the  dark.  In  times  of  persecution  we  realize 
the  security,  and  comfort,  and  joy,  which  are  in 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord  ;  and  as  God  goes  the 
round  of  the  world,  it  is  in  chambers  of  pain, 
sickness,  and  bereavement,  that  He  beholds  the 
multiplication  of  the  choice  graces  of  holy  char- 
acter and  temper.  The  affliction,  which  is  for 
the  moment,  is  working  out  an  exceeding  weight 
of  glory. 

51 


He  Smote  the  Egyptian. 

Exodus  a.  12  (R.  v.). 

THIS  was  creature-strength,  wrought  on  by 
creature-passion,  and  ending  in  creature-failure. 
Moses  stood  on  an  eminence,  and  reached  down 
to  these  poor  brethren  of  his  with  a  passing 
spasm  of  pity.  He  was  very  careful  to  look  this 
way  and  that,  so  as  not  to  invalidate  his  own 
position  at  court.  And  fear  for  himself  carried 
him  swiftly  from  the  scene  of  his  people's  woes. 
It  was  a  brief  effort  to  do  the  Divine  work  of 
redemption  in  his  own  energy.  Long  years  must 
pass,  during  which  God  would  drain  away  drop 
by  drop  his  strength,  his  resolution,  and  his  very 
desire  to  be  an  emancipator;  that  when  he  had 
become  nothing,  God  through  him  might  effect 
His  almighty  will. 

We  sometimes  smite  the  Egyptian  within. — 
We  rise  up  against  some  tyrant  passion,  and 
strike  two  or  three  vigorous  blows.  Our  efforts 
to  rid  ourselves  of  its  thrall  originate  and  are 
prosecuted  in  our  own  resolve.  At  first  the  con- 
flict seems  easily  our  own ;  finally  the  dead 
weight  of  all  the  Egyptians  within  is  more  than 
a  match  for  us. 

We  often  st?iite  the  Egyptian  without. — We 
make  an  assault  on  some  giant  evil — drink, 
gambling,  impurity.  It  seems  at  first  as  though 
we  should  carry  the  position  by  our  sudden  and 
impetuous  rush.  But  Egypt  conquers  in  the  end, 
and  we  flee. 

No :  we  need  to  learn  for  the  inward  and  out- 
ward conflict  the  lesson  that  forty  years  in  Midian 
taught  Moses,  that  only  the  Spirit  of  God  in  man 
can  overcome  the  spirit  of  the  world.  By  dis- 
appointment and  repeated  failure,  by  the  silence 
of  the  desert,  we  are  taught  that  we  are  nothing — 
then  God  becomes  our  all  in  all :  and  all  things 
become  possible  to  us  as  we  believe. 
52 


/  am  coine  down. 

Exodus  Hi.  8. 

THIS  is  a  marvellous  chapter,  because  it  is  so 
full  of  God.  If  the  previous  one,  in  its  story  of 
human  striving,  reminds  us  of  Rom.  vii.,  this  as 
surely  recalls  Rom.  viii.  There  is  little  mention 
of  the  part  that  Moses  was  to  play,  but  much  is 
said  of  what  God  was  about  to  do.  "  I  am  come 
down."  ''I  will  bring  you  up."  **I  will  put 
forth  Mine  hand."  O  weary  soul,  bitter  with 
weary  bondage,  groaning  beneath  cruel  taskmas- 
ters, afflicted  and  tossed  with  tempest,  the  I  AM 
has  come  down ! 

God  comes  down  to  our  lowest  to  lift  us  to  His 
highest. — This  is  the  theme  of  the  magnificat,  and 
of  Hannah's  song.  God  comes  down  to  the  dust 
for  the  poor,  and  to  the  dunghill  for  the  needy. 
You  cannot  be  too  lonely  or  broken  in  spirit  for 
Him  to  notice  and  help.  In  proportion  to  your 
humiliation  will  be  your  exaltation. 

He  comes  down  to  our  saddest  to  lift  us  to  His 
joyfullest. — How  great  the  contrast  between  the 
cry  of  the  Hebrews,  because  of  their  taskmasters, 
and  the  exultant  note  that  smote  on  the  rocks  of 
the  Red  Sea  !  Such  shall  be  your  experience 
also.  If  you  suffer  in  the  line  of  God's  will  and 
providence,  you  are  sowing  the  seeds  of  light  and 
gladness.     Oh,  anticipate  the  harvest ! 

He  comes  down  to  our  helplessness  to  succor 
with  His  great  might. — Israel  could  not  help  her- 
self; but  the  resources  of  I  AM  were  sufficient  for 
every  need,  and  they  will  be  for  yours  and  mine. 
This  is  God's  blank  check ;  fill  it  in  !  Insert 
after  these  majestic  words,  wisdom,  or  courage, 
or  love,  or  whatever  you  need  most.  And  He 
will  be  all  this,  and  more  also  :  not  for  a  moment, 
but  always;  not  spasmodically,  but  unchange- 
ably. 

53 


/  am  not  Eloquent. 

Exodtis  iv.  lo. 

THIS  is  what  we  all  say.  We  think  more  of 
the  words  than  of  the  message  ;  more  of  our  elo- 
quence or  slowness  of  speech  than  of  the  King's 
seal  and  signature.  Moses  had  learned  many 
wholesome  lessons  through  his  long  sojourn  in 
Midian  ;  but  he  had  to  learn  this  last  one,  that 
God  does  not  want  excellency  of  speech  or  of 
language  in  His  messengers,  but  the  unction  and 
power  which  come  on  those  who  speak  after  direct 
audience  with  the  Eternal.  Aaron,  who  came  to 
meet  Moses,  could  speak  well ;  but  he  was  a  weak 
man,  whose  alliance  with  Moses  caused  his  no- 
bler younger  brother  much  anxiety  and  pain. 
However,  God  determined  to  send  Aaron  with 
him,  to  be  his  colleague  and  spokesman.  Better 
a  thousand  times  had  it  been  for  Moses  to  trust 
God  for  speech,  than  be  thus  deposed  of  his  pre- 
miership. 

Be  sure  to  get  thy  message  from  the  King. — 
Wait  before  Him  in  the  inner  shrine,  till  He  says 
the  word  which  thou  shalt  speak.  This  will  give 
thee  the  real  eloquence  of  the  heart. 

Look  7ip  for  the  right  words. — The  Apostle 
said  that  the  Corinthians  were  enriched  in  all  ut- 
terance ;  and  he  said  that  he  spoke  the  Divine 
mysteries  in  words  which  the  Holy  Spirit  taught. 
Ask  for  these,  and  you  will  not  be  disappointed. 

I^ely  071  the  Divi7ie  cooperation. — There  is 
another  force  at  work,  more  subtle  and  penetrating 
than  the  most  eloquent  words  of  man — the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Seek  for  His  Divine  demon- 
stration and  co-witness.  And  it  shall  come  to 
pass,  that  mysterious  influences  shall  move  over 
the  hearts  of  those  that  listen  to  thy  words,  which 
shall  attest  tlie  mighty  fellowship  and  cooperation 
of  One  whom  the  natural  man  cannot  detect. 
54 


W/iy  is  it  that  Thou  hast  sent  me  f 

Exodus  V.  22. 

BEFORE  God  can  use  us,  He  must  bring  us  to 
an  end  of  ourselves.  When  Paul  was  summoned  to 
the  greatest  epistles  and  labors  of  his  life,  his 
strength  was  drained  to  utter  weakness,  and  he 
despaired  even  of  life.  So  in  the  case  of  Moses 
and  Israel. 

Moses  J  for  forty  years,  had  been  undergoing 
the  emptying  process;  but  perhaps  when  God 
called  him  to  this  great  enterprise,  there  may 
have  been  a  slight  revival  of  confidence  in  him- 
self, in  his  mission,  his  miracles,  the  eloquence 
of  Aaron's  speech.  So  in  the  rebuff  he  received 
from  Pharaoh,  in  the  bitter  remonstrances  of  the 
elders  of  his  people,  in  the  sad  consciousness  that 
his  efforts  had  aggravated  their  condition,  the 
lesson  was  still  further  taught  him — that  of  him- 
self he  could  do  absolutely  nothing. 

Israel  also  had  begun  to  hope  something  from 
his  mission.  Through  the  brickfields  the  story 
ran  of  his  early  years,  his  uncompromising  speech 
to  Pharaoh,  of  his  miracles;  and  the  wretched 
slaves  cherished  faith  in  him  and  Aaron  as  their 
heaven-sent  deliverers.  They  had,  however,  to 
learn  that  all  such  hopes  were  vain,  and  to  see 
that  the  brothers,  at  the  best,  were  as  weak  as 
themselves.  Then  the  way  was  prepared  to  lean 
only  on  God. 

Ourselves. — By  repeated  failures  all  along  our 
life-course  God  is  teaching  us  the  same  lesson. 
We  fail  to  justify  and  then  to  sanctify  ourselves. 
Our  efforts  to  serve  and  please  Him  only  end  in 
increasing  perplexity.  The  tale  of  bricks  is 
doubled  ;  the  burdens  augment ;  the  strength  of 
our  purpose  is  broken  ;  we  are  utterly  discour- 
aged;  and  then,  when  the  soul  is  utterly  deso- 
late, the  heavenly  Bridegroom  draws  near  and 
says,  "  I  will  do  all ;  I  am  Alpha  and  Omega;  I 
am  thy  salvation." 

55 


/  am  Jehovah,  and  I  Will ! 

Exodus  vi.  6. 

WHEN  all  human  help  has  failed,  and  the 
soul,  exhausted  and  despairing,  has  given  up 
hope  from  man,  God  draws  near,  and  says,  I 
AM.  It  is  as  though  He  said,  "All  that  can 
really  help  you  resides  in  My  nature  as  in  its  na- 
tive home.  I  have  weaned  you  from  all  beside, 
that  you  might  seek  in  Me  what  you  had  been 
wont  to  seek  in  men  and  things  and  self-help." 

Thus  God  with  Israel.  The  people  had  come 
to  relish  the  dainties  of  Egypt — the  leeks  and 
onions,  the  fleshpots  and  sensual  delights;  there- 
fore the  need  for  this  cruel  bondage  to  wean 
them,  and  prepare  them  for  marriage  union  with 
Himself.  Moreover,  they  placed  great  hopes  in 
Moses,  and  such  appeals  as  might  be  made  to 
move  Pharaoh's  pity ;  from  these  too  it  was  neces- 
sary to  withdraw  the  people's  heart,  that  they 
might  look  for  all  to  their  heavenly  Lover,  and 
find  in  Jehovah  their  infinite  supply. 

Affliction  is  always  needful  in  the  first  stage  of 
the  Christian's  deepening  experience.  The  world, 
with  its  vainglory,  pride,  and  envy ;  the  delights 
of  the  flesh ;  the  praise  and  good  opinion  of  our 
fellows — these  take  the  place  of  Christ  in  His  dis- 
ciples. We  must  be  taught  to  despise  these 
things,  and  feel  their  vanity  and  insufficiency  to 
satisfy. 

Failure  is  often  necessary  to  teach  humility 
and  patience ;  so  that  we  may  have  no  confidence 
in  anything  we  can  call  our  own,  and  be  prepared 
to  find  all  our  satisfaction  and  delight  in  Jesus 
only. 

Revelation  then  becomes  possible,  of  all  that 
God  can  be  and  do.  He  draws  near  with  His 
sevenfold  "I  will."  He  looks  on  us  with  in- 
finite delight,  and  commences  to  bring  us  into 
such  blessedness  that  we  forget  all  else,  and  be- 
hold our  Bridegroom  only. 
56 


The  Egyptians  shall  knoiv  that  I  am  the  Lord. 

Exodus  vii.  J. 

IN  God's  dealings  with  His  people  He  pur- 
posed to  reveal  Himself  to  Egypt :  so  that  when 
He  led  forth  Israel's  hosts,  in  redemption  power, 
from  the  brick-fields  of  slavery  on  to  resurrection 
ground,  there  might  be  afforded  such  a  display 
of  His  love,  and  pity,  and  power,  as  the  world 
had  never  before  witnessed.  Egypt  and  all  sur- 
rounding nations  should  know  the  character  of 
God  in  the  Exodus,  as  the  Lover  and  Redeemer 
of  His  own. 

So  with  the  Church. — The  Apostle  tells  us  that 
redeemed  men  are  to  be  the  subjects  of  angelic 
contemplation  and  wonder.  In  the  Church, 
principalities  and  powers  shall  discern  the  mani- 
fold wisdom  and  grace  of  God.  When  God  has 
brought  all  the  ransomed  hosts  up  from  the 
Egyptian  bondage  of  the  world  to  stand  in  the 
radiance  of  the  eternal  morning,  then  the  uni- 
verse shall  ring  with  the  ascription,  ''Great  and 
marvellous  are  Thy  works.  Righteous  and  true  are 
Thy  ways." 

So  with  each  individual  believer. — Each  one  of 
us  has  been  formed  for  Jesus  Himself,  that  we 
might  show  forth  His  praise.  In  growing  purity 
and  sweetness,  in  our  deliverance  from  the  clinging 
corruptions  of  the  world  and  flesh,  in  our  pa- 
tience under  tribulation,  our  submission  and 
steadfast  hope,  in  our  willingness  to  sacrifice  our- 
selves for  others,  let  us  be  revelations  of  what 
Christ  is,  and  of  what  He  can  make  sinful  men 
become. 

Believers  are  the  world's  Bibles,  by  studying 
which  men  may  come  to  know  the  Lord  Himself. 
Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  be  clear  in  type,  unmis- 
takable in  our  testimony,  pleasant  to  behold, 
thoughtful  and  helpful  toward  all,  commending 
the  blessed  Bridegroom  whom  the  world  sees  not. 
57 


/  will  put  a  Division  between  My  People  and  thy 
People.  Exodus  viii.  2j. 

THIS  division  is  as  old  as  eternity, — In  the 
council  chamber  of  the  Godhead  the  Father 
chose  Jesus  and  all  who  should  believe  in  Him 
unto  eternal  life.  We  cannot  understand  the 
reason  of  that  Divine  choice ;  we  can  only  affirm 
it,  that  in  those  ages  of  the  unfathomed  past, 
Christ  and  His  seed  stood  out  from  the  rest  of 
mankind,  the  people  of  God's  own  possession 
and  inheritance. 

It  was  affected  by  the  Cross  of  Jesus. — By  it 
we  are  crucified  to  the  world,  and  the  world  to 
us.  The  cross,  with  its  outstretched  arms,  stands 
sentinel  between  the  Church  and  the  world  which 
cast  out  her  Lord.  The  grave,  like  a  great  gulf, 
yawns  between  those  who  gather  round  the  risen 
Master  on  resurrection  ground,  and  all  men  else. 
From  the  moment  that  Jesus  ascended,  the  rally- 
ing centre  of  the  Church  was  removed  from 
earth  to  heaven,  from  the  cross  to  the  throne. 

//  is  wrought  out  by  the  daily  grace  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. — It  is  right,  of  course,  to  come  out  and 
be  separate  in  our  outward  walk  and  behavior. 
But,  deeper  than  this,  if  only  we  will  let  the 
Spirit  of  God  work  unhindered.  He  will  effect 
an  inward  division.  Our  tastes  and  desires,  our 
hopes  and  aims,  will  become  different,  and  we 
shall  be  aware  of  a  growing  dissimilarity  between 
ourselves  and  the  world. 

Then  to  the  separate  soul  the  Bridegroom 
comes.  He  says  tender  and  loving  words.  In 
one  hour  He  teaches  more  than  all  human  teach- 
ers could ;  and  sheds  forth  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
the  torrent  of  Divine  Love.  There  may  be  dark- 
ness without,  but  there  is  light  in  the  dwellings 
of  Goshen  :  there  may  be  plague  and  pestilence 
in  the  world,  but  there  is  peace,  joy,  and  bliss,  in 
the  separated  soul. 

58 


Only  ill    Goshen^  where  the    Children  of  Israel 
were,  ivas  there  no  hail.  Exodus  ix.  26. 

THOSE  who  are  included  in  the  provisions  of 
the  covenant  are  sealed.  The  storm  may  sweep 
around  them,  but  the  great  angel,  who  ascends 
from  the  east,  cries  with  a  great  voice  to  the 
angels  to  whom  it  is  given  to  hurt  the  earth,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  trees,  saying,  Hurt  them  not  till 
we  have  sealed  the  servants  of  God  in  their  fore- 
heads (Rev.  vii.  3). 

The  only  spot  on  which  the  soul  is  safe  is 
within  the  encircling  provisions  of  the  covenant. 
Israel  stood  there,  and  was  safe — not  only  from 
the  hail,  but  from  the  destroying  sword.  The 
invulnerable  walls  of  that  sacred  enclosure  were 
the  oath  and  promise  of  God  to  Abraham.  God 
had  bound  himself  by  the  most  solemn  sanctions 
to  be  a  God  to  this  people,  and  deliver  them  ;  it 
was  necessary,  therefore,  that  He  should  be  their 
pavilion  and  canopy,  catching  the  hailstones  on 
His  outstretched  wings  and  securing  them  from 
hurt. 

The  covenant  is  entered,  not  by  merit  nor  by 
works.  There  was  neither  the  one  nor  the  other 
in  that  race  of  slaves ;  but  they  stood  there 
simply  because  of  their  relationship  to  the  Friend 
of  God.  So  we  enter  the  blessed  safety  of  the 
better  covenant,  through  our  relationship  with 
the  Lord  Jesus,  who  is  the  Beloved  of  the  Father, 
the  one  glorious  and  blessed  Man.  Without 
beauty  or  merit,  the  soul  attaches  itself  by  faith 
to  Him,  and  discovers  that  it  was  loved  before 
the  worlds  were  made. 

Ah,  blessed  Lover  of  souls,  we  see  how  the 
storm  swept  Thy  heart,  that  it  might  never  touch 
us.  Thou  art  our  hiding-place,  our  shield,  our 
deliverer,  our  strong  tower.  Without  dismay  we 
can  anticipate  the  storm.s  of  death,  judgment, 
and  eternity,  sure  that  wherever  Thou  art  there 
can  be  no  hail. 

59 


All  the   Children  of  Israel  had  Light  in   their 
dwellings.  Exodus  x.  2j. 

WITHOUT,  darkness  that  might  be  felt; 
within,  light.  This  should  be  the  condition  of 
each  believing  heart.  The  sun  may  have  gone 
down,  and  the  moon  withdrawn  herself  in  the 
firmament  of  the  world  ;  the  darkness  of  per- 
plexity and  trouble  may  envelop  Pharaoh  and  all 
his  chosen  counsellors ;  all  things  may  wear  the 
aspect  of  approaching  dissolution  :  but  with  the 
Lord  as  our  everlasting  Light  we  walk  in  the 
light  of  life. 

Light  is  purity. — The  soul  which  is  exposed  to 
the  indwelling  of  God,  purifies  itself  even  as  He 
is  pure ;  and  walks  as  Jesus  did,  with  white  and 
stainless  robes.  He  that  says  he  has  fellowship 
with  the  Holy  God,  and  walks  in  the  darkness  of 
his  own  lusts,  lies.  Where  God  is  really  hidden 
in  the  heart,  the  beams  of  His  lovely  purity  must 
irradiate  and  beautify  the  life. 

Light  is  knowledge. — There  is  a  wisdom,  an 
insight,  an  understanding  of  the  Divine  mys- 
teries, which  the  mere  intellect  could  never  give, 
but  are  the  product  of  the  Divine  indwelling  in 
the  holy  soul.  All  around  men  may  be  groping 
aimlessly  after  truth,  trying  to  discover  the  secret 
of  the  Universe,  whilst  to  the  loving,  childlike 
soul,  in  which  God  has  taken  up  His  abode, 
these  things,  which  are  hidden  from  the  wise  and 
prudent,  are  unveiled. 

Light  is  love. — It  steals  so  gently  over  the 
world,  blessing  flowers  and  birds,  little  children 
and  invalids.  Everywhere  it  is  the  symbol  of  the 
beneficent  work  of  its  Creator.  His  eldest 
daughter  !  Thus  amid  the  selfishness  of  the 
world,  let  Jesus  dwell  deep  in  thee,  that  thou 
mayest  be  rooted  and  grounded  in  the  love  of 
God,  which  shall  illumine  thy  dwelling,  and 
ray  out  to  the  world. 

60 


Jewels  of  Silver  and  Jewels  of  Gold. 

Exodus  xi.  2. 

THE  Egyptians  knew  very  well  that  they 
would  never  see  their  jewels  again  ;  and  the  peo- 
ple of  Israel  were  thus,  to  some  extent,  compen- 
sated for  their  unpaid  toils.  The  Lord  gave 
them  such  favor  with  the  Egyptians  that  they 
gave  them  whatever  they  asked;  so  that  **they 
spoiled  the  Egyptians." 

These  jewels  were  employed  afterward  in  the 
adornment  and  enrichment  of  the  Sanctuary. 
They  flashed  in  the  breastplate  of  the  High 
Priest,  and  shone  in  the  sacred  vessels.  In  this 
they  remind  us  of  the  treasures  which  David 
gathered  by  his  conquests  from  neighboring  na- 
tions, and  which  were  afterward  incorporated  in 
the  Temple  of  Solomon.  They  recall  also  the 
glowing  predictions  of  the  prophet,  that  the 
kings  of  the  earth  shall  bring  their  treasures  into 
the  New  Jerusalem. 

The  jewels  of  the  Church,  whether  they  stand 
for  her  graces  or  her  choice  children,  have  often 
been  obtained  from  the  midst  of  Egypt.  Was 
not  Saul  of  Tarsus  just  such  a  jewel  ?  The  world 
counted  him  one  of  her  rarest  sons ;  but  God  set 
him  as  a  jewel  in  the  breastplate  of  Immanuel. 

Let  us  ever  seek  jewels  from  the  land  of  our 
captivity  and  suffering.  It  will  not  do  to  come 
away  empty.  It  is  not  enough  merely  to  bear 
what  God  permits  to  fall  on  us  for  our  chastise- 
ment ;  but  to  go  further,  and  extract  from  all 
trials,  jewels.  Let  every  trial  and  temptation 
enrich  you  with  the  opposite  grace.  There  are 
Egyptians  in  your  life,  which  have  grievously 
tormented  you  with  their  heavy  whips,  yet  even 
these  shall  yield  wealth — **  jewels  of  silver  and 
jewels  of  gold  "  ;  which  you  shall  consecrate  to 
holy  service,  and  which  shall  shine  in  the  fabric 
and  worship  of  the  New  Jerusalem. 

61 


With  bitter  herbs. 

Exodus  xii.  8. 

THE  Paschal  feast  is  the  emblem  of  the  Chris- 
tian life.  The  Blood  is  ever  speaking  to  God 
for  us;  though  we  see  it  not,  God  sees  it,  and 
hears  its  prevalent  plea.  We  in  the  meanwhile 
are  called  upon  to  feed  in  faith  daily,  hourly,  on 
the  flesh  of  the  Son  of  Man,  according  to  His 
own  command.  In  all  Christian  life,  even  in  its 
hours  of  greatest  rapture,  there  must  be  a  touch 
of  the  bitter  herb. 

We  can  never  forget  the  cost  of  our  redemption. 
— Even  in  heaven,  in  the  full  realization  of  its 
bliss,  whenever  we  catch  sight  of  the  print  of  the 
nails  in  His  hand,  we  shall  remember  the  agony 
and  bloody  sweat,  the  cross  and  passion,  and  eat 
the  feast  with  the  flavor  of  the  bitter  herb.  How 
much  more  on  earth,  where  we  are  so  constantly 
requiring  the  efficacy  of  His  precious  death  ! 

There  will  always  be  the  memory  of  our  sinner- 
ship. — We  cannot  forget  our  unworthiness  and 
sin.  He  has  forgiven ;  but  we  cannot  forget. 
Ah,  those  years  of  rebellion  and  perverseness  be- 
fore we  yielded  to  Him ;  and  those  years  of  self- 
will  and  pride  since  we  knew  His  love  1  They 
will  sometimes  come  back  to  us,  and  give  us  to  eat 
of  the  bitter  herb. 

Moreover,  there  must  be  the  constant  crucifix- 
ion of  the  self -life. — We  can  only  properly  feed 
on  Jesus,  the  Lamb  of  God,  when  we  are  ani- 
mated by  the  spirit  of  self-surrender  and  humilia- 
tion, of  death  to  the  world  and  to  the  will  of  the 
flesh,  which  were  the  characteristics  of  His  cross. 
Deep  down  in  our  hearts,  the  drinking  of  His 
cup  and  being  baptized  with  His  baptism,  will 
be  the  touch  of  the  bitter  herbs  in  the  feast. 
But  "  the  sufferings  of  this  present  time  are  not 
worthy  to  be  compared  with  the  glory  which 
shall  be  revealed  in  us." 


By  strength  of  hand  the  Lord  brought  us  out. 

Exodus  xiii.  14. 

FOUR  times  over  in  this  chapter  Moses  lays 
stress  on  the  strong  hand  with  which  God  re- 
deemed His  people  from  the  bondage  of  Egypt ; 
and  we  are  reminded  of  "  the  exceeding  great- 
ness of  His  power,  which  is  to  us-ward  who  be- 
lieve "  (Eph.  i.  12-20). 

God' s  strong  hand  reaches  down  to  where  we 
are. — It  would  have  been  useless  if  Israel  had 
been  bidden  to  help  itself  up  to  a  certain  point, 
whilst  God  would  do  the  rest.  The  people  were 
so  broken  that  they  could  only  lie  at  the  bottom 
of  the  pit,  and  moan.  God's  hand  reached 
down  to  touch  and  grasp  them  at  their  lowest. 
So  God's  help  is  not  conditional  on  our  doing 
something,  whilst  He  will  do  the  rest.  When 
we  are  without  strength,  when  we  have  expended 
our  all  in  vain,  when  heart  and  flesh  fail — then 
God  comes  where  we  are,  and  becomes  the 
strength  of  our  heart  and  our  portion  forever. 

God' s  strong  hafid  is  mightier  than  our  might- 
iest adversaries, — Pharaoh  was  strong,  and  held 
the  people  as  a  child  may  hold  a  moth  in  its 
clenched  fist.  But  a  man's  hand  is  stronger  than 
a  child's,  and  God's  than  Pharaoh's.  So  Satan 
may  have  held  you  in  bondage ;  but  do  not  fear 
him  any  more,  look  away  to  the  strength  of 
God's  hand.     What  can  it  not  do  for  you? 

We  ?nust  appropriate  afid  reckon  on  God' s 
strong  ha7id. — It  is  there  toward  them  who  be- 
lieve, as  a  locomotive  may  be  next  a  line  of  car- 
riages ;  yet  there  must  be  a  coupling-iron  con- 
necting them.  So  you  must  trust  God's  strength, 
and  avail  yourself  of  it,  and  yield  to  it.  Re- 
member that  His  arm  is  not  shortened,  nor  His 
hand  paralyzed,  except  our  unbelief  and  sin  in- 
tercept and  hinder  the  mighty  working  of  His 
Power. 

63 


And  Israel  saw  the  Egyptians  dead  upon  the 

seashore.  Exodus  xiv.  JO. 

WHAT  a  relief  that  morning  brought  from 
the  anxieties  of  the  previous  night  !  Then,  as 
they  lifted  up  their  eyes,  they  saw  Pharaoh  and 
the  dreaded  Egyptian  taskmaster  in  full  pursuit ; 
now  they  beheld  the  seashore  strewn  with  their 
bodies,  stark  and  cold.  They  would  never  see 
them  again,  nor  hear  the  crack  of  their  whips. 

So  in  life  we  are  permitted  to  see  the  dreaded 
temptations  and  evils  of  earlier  days  suddenly 
deprived  of  all  power  to  hurt  us.  The  Egyp- 
tians are  dead  upon  the  shore ;  and  we  see  the 
great  work  of  the  Lord.  Let  us  take  comfort  in 
this  — 

In  the  pressure  of  trial. — You  are  suffering 
keenly  ;  yet  remember  that  no  trial  is  allowed  to 
come  from  any  source  in  which  there  is  not  a 
Divine  meaning.  Nothing  can  enter  your  life,  of 
which  God  is  not  cognizant,  and  which  He  does 
not  permit.  Though  the  pressure  of  your  trial 
is  almost  unbearable,  you  will  one  day  see  your 
Egyptians  dead. 

Amid  the  temptations  of  the  great  adver- 
sary of  souls. — They  may  seem  at  this  moment 
more  than  you  can  bear  ;  but  God  is  about  to  de- 
liver you.  He  can  so  absolutely  free  you  from 
the  habits  of  self-indulgence  which  you  have  con- 
tracted, and  from  the  perpetual  yielding  to  temp- 
tation to  which  you  have  been  prone,  that  some 
day  you  will  look  with  amazement  and  thankful- 
ness on  these  things,  as  Egyptians  dead  on  the 
seashore. 

So  also  in  the  presence  of  death. — Many  be- 
lievers dread,  not  the  after-death,  but  the  act  of 
dying.  But  as  the  morning  of  eternity  breaks, 
they  will  awake  with  songs  of  joy  to  see  death 
and  the  grave  and  all  the  evils  that  they  dreaded, 
like  Egyptians,  strewn  on  the  shores  of  the  sea  of 
glass. 

64 


The  waters  were  made  Sweet. 

Exodus  XV.  2^. 

OUR  joys  and  sorrows,  like  the  varied  products 
of  nature,  lie  very  close  together.  One  moment 
we  are  singing  the  joyous  song  of  victory  on  the 
shores  of  the  Red  Sea,  and  vow  we  will  never 
again  mistrust  our  God ;  and  then,  by  a  sudden 
transition,  we  find  ourselves  standing  beside  the 
Marah  waters  of  pain  and  disappointment,  in- 
clined to  murmur  at  our  lot. 

There  is,  however,  a  tree,  which,  when  cast 
into  the  waters,  makes  them  sweet.  It  is  the  tree 
of  the  cross.  ''He  bare  our  sins  in  His  own 
body  on  the  tree."  The  cross  means  the  yield- 
ing up  of  the  will.  Now,  it  is  in  proportion  as 
we  see  God's  will  in  the  various  events  of  life, 
and  surrender  ourselves  either  to  bear  or  do  it, 
that  we  shall  find  earth's  bitter  things  becoming 
sweet,  and  its  hard  things  easy. 

We  must  yield  our  will  to  God. — The  secret  of 
blessedness  is  in  saying  "Yes"  to  the  will  of 
God,  as  it  is  shown  in  the  circumstances  of  our 
lot  or  the  revelations  of  His  Word.  It  is  the 
will  of  a  Father  whose  love  and  wisdom  are  be- 
yond question. 

We  must  accept  what  He  p€r??iits. — It  may  be 
that  our  pains  emanate  from  the  malevolence  or 
negligence  of  others ;  still,  if  He  has  permitted 
them,  they  are  His  will  for  us.  By  the  time  they 
reach  us  they  have  become  minted  with  His  die, 
and  we  must  patiently  submit. 

We  must  do  all  He  bids. — The  thread  of  obe- 
dience must  always  be  running  through  our  hands. 
At  all  costs  to  our  choice  and  feeling  we  must 
not  only  have  His  commands,  but  keep  them. 
Our  Lord  perpetually  lays  stress  on  obeying  His 
words.  This  is  the  spirit  of  the  Cross,  and  the 
properties  of  this  tree  sweeten  earth's  bitterest 
sorrows.  "Disappointments  become  His  ap- 
pointments." 

65 


A  dafs  Portion  every  day. 

Exodus  xvi.  4  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  said  that  the  twenty-four  hours  should  be 
divided  thus :  Eight  hours  for  work,  eight  for 
rest,  eight  for  recreation,  food,  etc.  There  should 
be  a  counterpart  of  this  in  Christian  living.  Each 
day  there  should  be  a  portion  for  work,  a  portion 
for  restful  meditation  and  sitting  before  the 
Lord,  and  a  portion  for  the  gathering  of  God's 
manna. 

Each  day  brings  its  own  work. — God  has 
created  us  for  good  works,  and  has  prepared  our 
pathway,  so  that  we  may  come  to  them  one  by 
one.  He  has  apportioned  to  each  one  some  office 
to  fulfill,  some  service  to  render,  some  function 
in  the  mystical  body  of  our  Lord.  It  is  comfort- 
ing to  know  that  we  have  not  to  scheme  for  our- 
selves, but  to  look  up  for  guidance  into  the  Divine 
plan. 

Each  day  brings  its  own  difficulties. — God 
spreads  them  over  our  days,  giving  each  day  only 
what  we  can  sustain.  The  servant  girl  might  be 
startled  were  she  told  that  she  would  have  to 
carry  the  coals,  which  it  has  taken  two  horses 
and  a  great  cart  to  bring  to  her  master's  door ; 
but  she  will  be  comforted  by  being  reminded 
that  they  will  be  borne  upstairs  only  a  coal-scut- 
tle full  at  a  time. 

Each  day  brings  its  own  supply. — No  Israelite 
could  point  to  his  store  of  manna  and  congratu- 
late himself  that  he  was  proof  against  any  famine 
that  might  befall.  The  lesson  of  daily  trust  for 
daily  bread  was  constantly  being  enforced  ;  for 
as  the  day  came  the  manna  fell.  Those  who  fol- 
lowed the  cloud  were  always  certain  of  their  sus- 
tenance. Where  the  cloud  brooded  the  manna 
fell.  Whatever  any  day  may  bring  there  always 
will  be  within  reach  of  you,  lying  ready  prepared 
on  the  sands  of  the  desert,  just  what  you  require. 
Go  forth  and  carry  it ;  there  will  be  no  lack. 
66 


/  will  stand  before  thee  upon  the  rock  in  Horeb, 
and  thou  shall  sinite  the  rock.        Exodus  xvU.  6. 

HERE  is  a  beautiful  example  of  the  coopera- 
tion between  God  and  His  servants  in  providing 
for  the  needs  of  His  people.  Clearly  the  smiting 
of  the  rock  was  a  very  small  item  in  this  inci- 
dent, the  main  consideration  was  what  God  was 
doing  in  the  heart  of  the  earth.  But  the  two 
wrought  together :  Moses  in  the  eyes  of  the  peo- 
ple, God  in  hidden  depths.  Similarly  we  are 
fellow  workers  with  God. 

One  of  the  greatest  revelations  that  can  come 
to  any  Christian  worker  is  the  realization  that  in 
every  act  of  Christian  ministry  there  are  two 
agents,  God  and  man  :  that  God  does  not  need 
to  be  implored  to  help  us,  but  wants  us  to  help 
Him  ;  that  our  part  is  the  very  unimportant  and 
subsidiary  one  of  smiting  the  rock,  whilst  His  is 
the  Divine  and  all  important  part  of  making  the 
waters  flow. 

Did  Moses  go  to  the  rock  that  day  weighted 
with  care,  his  brow  furrowed  with  the  anxiety  of 
furnishing  a  river  of  which  his  people  might 
drink  ?  Certainly  not ;  he  had  only  to  smite : 
God  would  do  all  the  rest,  and  had  pledged  Him- 
self to  it.  So,  Christian  worker,  you  have  been 
worrying  as  though  the  whole  weight  of  God's 
inheritance  were  upon  you,  but  you  are  greatly 
mistaken ;  smiting  is  very  easy  work. 

In  every  congregation  and  religious  gathering 
the  Holy  Spirit  is  present,  eager  to  glorify  Christ, 
and  to  pour  out  rivers  of  living  water  for  thirsty 
men ;  believe  this.  See  that  you  are  spiritually 
in  a  right  condition,  that  He  may  be  able  to  ally 
you  with  Himself.  Keep  reckoning  on  Him  to 
do  His  share ;  and  when  the  river  is  flowing,  be 
sure  not  to  take  the  praise. 

"  We  are  workers  together  with  God." 


67 


And  God  command  thee  so. 

Exodus  xviii.  2j. 

IT  was  good  and  sound  advice  that  Jethro  gave 
his  son-in-law.  It  could  hardly  have  been  bet- 
ter. It  is  always  better  to  set  one  hundred 
men  to  work  than  attempt  to  do  the  work  of  one 
hundred  men.  There  is  no  greater  art  in  the 
world  than  to  develop  the  latent  capacities  of 
those  around  us  by  yoking  them  to  useful  service. 
But  good  though  the  advice  obviously  was,  Jethro 
carefully  guarded  Moses  against  adopting  it,  un- 
less the  Lord  had  been  consulted,  and  had  com- 
manded it. 

Let  us  test  human  advice. — There  are  plenty  of 
voices  that  advise  us,  and  each  has  some  nostrum 
for  our  health,  some  direction  for  our  path. 
Some  are  true  guides,  whom  God  has  sent  to  us, 
as  Jethro  to  Moses.  Often  an  on-looker  can  see 
mistakes  we  are  making,  and  can  suggest  some- 
thing better.  But  we  are  wise  to  get  alone  into 
the  holy  presence  of  God,  and  ask  what  He  com- 
mands, what  is  His  will. 

Let  us  test  human  teachings. — So  full  is  the 
world  of  voices,  so  bewildering  the  din  of  reli- 
gious schools  and  sects  I  The  Apostle  was  justified 
in  advising  us  to  prove  all  things,  and  to  try  the 
spirits,  whether  they  were  of  God.  There  are 
four  tests  for  truth  :  what  glorifies  Christ ;  what 
humbles  the  flesh ;  what  is  in  accord  with  the 
Word  of  God ;  and  what  has  stood  the  trial  of 
Christian  experience  in  the  past. 

There  is  no  teacher  like  God,  and  we  may 
always  detect  His  voice.  It  is  small  and  still ;  it 
casts  down  imagination,  and  brings  our  thoughts 
into  the  captivity  of  Jesus;  it  is  definite  and  dis- 
tinct. When  there  is  an  indistinct  murmur  of 
many  sounds  along  the  wire,  you  may  be  sure 
that  you  are  not  in  communication  with  your 
Father's  person.  When  He  speaks,  there  is  no 
mistaking  His  voice  or  His  will. 


A  peculiar  Treasure  unto  Me. 

Exodus  xix.  jr. 

OUR  Saviour  told  of  a  man  who,  in  plough- 
ing his  field,  heard  his  ploughshare  chink  against 
buried  treasure,  and  hastened  to  sell  all  that  he 
had  in  order  to  buy  it.  In  speaking  thus,  He 
pictured  Himself  as  well  as  us.  He  found  us 
before  we  found  Him.  The  treasure  is  His  peo- 
ple, to  purchase  whom  He  gave  up  all  that  He 
had,  even  to  His  throne  (Matt.  xiii.  44).  *'  Ye 
are  an  elect  race,  a  royal  priesthood,  a  holy  na- 
tion, a  people  for  God's  own  possession,  that  ye 
may  show  forth  the  excellencies  of  Him  who 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  His  marvellous 
light"  (i  Peter  ii.  9,  r.  v.). 

Where  his  treasure  is,  there  is  a  man's  heart. 
If  it  is  in  ships  on  the  treacherous  sea,  he  tosses 
restlessly  on  his  bed,  solicitous  for  its  safety.  If 
it  is  in  fabrics,  he  guards  against  moth;  if  in 
metal,  against  rust  and  thieves.  And  is  Christ 
less  careful  for  His  own  ?  Does  He  not  guard 
with  equal  care  against  all  that  would  deteriorate 
our  value  in  His  esteem  ?  Need  we  fear  the  thief? 
Will  not  the  Only-begotten  keep  us,  so  that  the 
evil  one  shall  not  touch  us  (Matt.  vi.  19,  20)  ? 

God's  treasure  is  His  forever.  *' They  shall 
be  Mine,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  in  the  day  that 
I  do  make,  even  a  peculiar  treasure."  He  will 
hold  His  own,  as  men  cling  to  their  treasure, 
binding  it  about  their  loins,  in  a  storm  at  sea 
(Mai.  iii.  17,  r.  v.). 

Let  us  mind  the  conditions:  to  obey  His 
voice,  and  keep  His  covenant ;  then  on  eagles* 
wings  He  will  bring  us  to  Himself.  Compliance 
with  these  is  blessed  in  its  results.  God  regards 
us  with  the  ecstasy  of  a  love  that  rejoices  over  us 
with  singing  ;  and  counts  on  us  as  a  mother  on 
her  child,  a  miser  on  his  gold. 


The  thick  darkness  where  God  was. 

Exodus  XX.  21. 

GOD  is  light,  and  dwells  in  light,  but  it  is 
mercifully  veiled  to  the  weak  eye  of  man.  This 
is  why  Christ  spake  in  parables — that  seeing,  they 
might  not  see.  As  Moses  veiled  his  face  when 
he  spake  to  the  people,  so  God  veils  Himself  in 
the  flesh  of  Jesus,  in  which  He  tabernacles ;  and 
in  the  mysteries  of  His  providence,  beneath 
which  He  conceals  a  smiling  face.  The  Sun  of 
Righteousness  in  whose  beams  we  rejoice  must 
needs  hide  beneath  the  cloud,  else  we  should  fall 
at  His  feet  as  dead.  It  may  be  that  His  light 
seems  to  us  darkness,  because  of  its  excessive 
brilliance ;  but  God  dwells  in  the  thick  darkness 
— clouds  and  darkness  are  round  about  Him. 

The  darkness  of  ??iystery. — God  has  still  His 
hidden  secrets,  hidden  from  the  wise  and  prudent. 
Do  not  fear  them ;  be  content  to  accept  things 
you  cannot  understand ;  wait  patiently.  Pres- 
ently He  will  reveal  to  you  the  treasures  of  dark- 
ness, the  riches  of  the  glory  of  the  mystery. 
Mystery  is  only  the  veil  on  God's  face. 

The  darkness  of  trial. — Do  not  be  afraid  to 
enter  the  cloud  that  is  settling  down  on  your  life. 
God  is  in  it.  The  other  side  is  radiant  with  His 
glory.  "Think  it  not  strange  concerning  the 
fiery  trial  which  is  to  try  you,  as  though  some 
strange  thing  happened  unto  you :  but  rejoice, 
inasmuch  as  ye  are  partakers  of  Christ's  suffer- 
ings." 

The  darkness  of  desertion. — When  you  seem 
loneliest  and  most  forsaken,  God  is  nighest. 
Jesus  once  cried  "Forsaken,"  and  immediately 
after,  "Father."  God  is  in  the  dark  cloud. 
Plunge  into  the  blackness  of  its  darkness  without 
flinching — under  the  shrouding  curtain  of  His 
pavilion  you  will  find  God  awaiting  you. 
70 


Wi^h  an  awl. 

Exodus  xxi.  6. 

THE  Hebrew  slave  wlio  meant  perpetual  con- 
secration of  service  had  to  lose  a  little  blood. 
It  was  a  disagreeable  and  not  wholly  painless 
process,  by  which  his  vows  were  ratified  and 
rendered  permanent.  But  not  otherwise  could 
he  serve  forever.  That  awl  represents  the  nail 
that  affixed  Christ  to  the  cross,  and  we  must  ex- 
pect it  in  every  true  act  of  consecration.  For 
want  of  it  so  many  seem  to  go  through  that  su- 
preme act,  and  shortly  after  go  back  from  it, 
bringing  discredit  and  shame  upon  the  teaching 
they  had  eagerly  welcomed.  There  are  two 
stages  in  the  Christian  life :  that  in  which  we 
serve  with  the  spirit  of  a  slave,  and  that  in  which 
we  freely  yield  ourselves  to  serve  our  Master  for- 
ever. This  is  the  service  represented  by  the 
pierced  ear. 

The  awl  spiritually  means  the  humiliation  and 
pain  with  which  we  surrender  the  self-life.  We 
are  tempted  to  consecrate  ourselves  in  our  own 
energy ;  to  resolve  on  the  devout  life  in  the 
strength  of  our  own  resolution  ;  to  say,  '*  I  will 
serve  Christ  utterly."  We  avoid  the  awl  which 
deprives  us  of  our  own  energy,  which  is  applied 
to  us  by  the  hand  of  another,  and  which  makes 
us  helpless  and  self-emptied,  that  God  may  be- 
come all  in  all.  In  your  case  the  awl  may  be 
the  daily  fret  of  some  uncongenial  associate  ;  the 
pressure  of  loss  and  anxiety  for  the  sake  of  Jesus ; 
the  humiliation  of  your  pride  by  perpetual  sense 
of  failure.  Whatever  it  be,  welcome  all  that 
binds  you  to  His  cross,  because  through  death 
you  live. 

"  I  beseech  you  therefore,  brethren,  by  the 
mercies  of  God,  that  ye  present  your  bodies  a 
living  sacrifice,  holy,  acceptable  unto  God, 
which  is  your  reasonable  service." 

71 


He  shall  make  Restitution. 

Exodus  xxii.  5. 

THIS  chapter  is  full  of  restitution,  of  which 
there  is  far  too  little  in  ordinary  Christian  life. 
We  try  to  make  amends  for  injury  done  to  an- 
other by  an  extraordinary  amount  of  civility ; 
but  we  are  reluctant  in  so  many  words  to 
frankly  confess  that  we  have  done  wrong,  and 
make  proper  reparation  for  the  act  or  speech. 
We  often  excuse  ourselves  by  the  thought  that 
we  were  fully  justified  in  speaking  or  acting  as 
we  did,  whereas  we  may  behave  ourselves 
wrongly  in  courses  of  conduct  which  are  them- 
selves legitimate. 

Loosing  a  beast  into  another  man^s  field  (5). — 
We  may  through  our  carelessness  allow  another 
to  suffer  detriment.  The  beast  ought  not  to  have 
been  thus  allowed  to  stray ;  and,  as  we  let  it  loose, 
we  should  make  amends  for  our  carelessness  in 
respect  to  our  brother's  interests.  We  wrong  an- 
other not  only  by  what  we  do,  or  permit  to  be 
done,  but  in  what  we  carelessly  fail  to  do. 

Kindling  a  fire  (6). — The  tongue  is  a  spark 
that  kindles  a  great  matter.  If  we  drop  fire- 
brands and  lighted  matches  in  the  inflammable 
material  of  a  circle  of  gossip,  we  should  make 
amends  to  the  person  whose  character  may  have 
been  thereby  injured. 

Borrowed  goods  (14). — To  return  a  house,  a 
book,  a  horse,  in  the  state  in  which  we  received 
it,  fair  wear  and  tear  excepted,  or  to  make  good 
any  injury,  should  be  a  commonplace  of  Chris- 
tian morality.  Trustees  are  responsible  for  not 
making  due  inquiry  into  risky  investments. 
Each  is  his  brother's  keeper.  If  we  remember 
at  the  prayer-hour  that  he  has  aught  against  us, 
let  us  seek  him,  and  confess,  and  restore. 

72 


An  enemy  unto  thine  eneinies. 

Exodus  xxiii.  22, 

IT  is  a  most  helpful  thought  that  the  angel  of 
the  covenant  in  whom  is  God's  name,  always 
precedes  us.  In  our  march  through  the  wilder- 
ness we  perceive  His  form,  which  is  viewless  to 
others,  and  realize  that  His  strong  hand  prepares 
our  path.  Let  us  be  very  careful  not  to  grieve  or 
disobey  Him,  lest  we  lose  His  mighty  champion- 
ship. Strict  obedience  to  His  slightest  whisper 
secures  the  certainty  of  His  vindication  of  us 
from  the  wrongs  we  suffer  at  the  hands  of  our 
foes.  A  little  further  on  the  same  voice  promises 
to  send  a  hornet  before  the  chosen  host  (28).  He 
who  is  an  angel  to  the  saint  is  a  hornet  to  his 
foes.  A  swarm  of  hornets  is  the  most  relentless 
and  irresistible  foe  that  man  can  face. 

Have  you  enemies  ?  Be  sure  that  they  hate 
you  only  for  the  truth's  sake,  and  because  dark- 
ness must  always  be  in  antagonism  to  light. 
*'  Who  is  he  that  will  harm  you,  if  ye  be  follow- 
ers of  that  which  is  good  ?  But  and  if  yc  suffer 
for  righteousness'  sake,  happy  are  ye :  and  be 
not  afraid  of  their  terror,  neither  be  troubled." 
But  see  to  it  that  you  cherish  no  spirit  of  hatred 
or  retaliation  toward  them.  Think  of  the  misery 
of  their  heart,  which  is  full  of  jealousy,  envy,  and 
bitterness.     Pity  and  pray  for  them. 

AVhen  we  are  right  with  God  we  shall  have 
many  new  enemies.  All  who  hate  Him  will  hate 
us.  But  this  is  rather  to  our  credit  than  other- 
wise. Those  who  have  defamed  the  master  of 
the  household  will  be  hostile  to  his  servants. 
But  when  our  cause  is  one  with  God's,  and  His 
foes  ours,  our  foes  are  His,  and  He  deals  with 
them ;  He  stands  between  us  and  their  hate.  He 
will  not  leave  us  in  their  hands;  He  will  give  us 
vindication  and  deliverance. 


73 


They  beheld  Gody  and  did  eat  and  drink. 

Exodus  xxiv.  ii. 

IT  is  a  beautiful  combination,  which  we  should 
do  well  to  emulate. 

Some  eat  and  drink,  and  do  not  behold  God. — 
They  are  taken  up  with  the  delights  of  sense. 
Their  one  cry,  as  the  children  of  this  world,  is, 
What  shall  we  eat,  what  shall  we  drink,  and 
wherewithal  shall  we  be  clothed  ?  But  the  God  in 
whose  hand  their  breath  is  and  whose  are  all 
their  ways,  they  do  not  glorify.  Let  us  beware ; 
it  was  of  Christian  professors  that  the  Apostles 
said.  Their  god  is  their  belly. 

Some  behold  God,  and  do  not  eat  and  drink, — 
They  look  on  God  with  such  awful  fear  that  they 
isolate  Him  from  the  common  duties  of  life. 
They  draw  a  strict  line  between  the  sacred  and 
secular,  between  Sunday  and  weekday,  between 
God's  and  their  own.  This  divorce  between  re- 
ligion and  daily  life  is  fatal  to  true  religion, 
which  was  meant  to  be  the  bond  between  the 
commonest  details  of  life  and  the  service  of  God. 

Some  behold  God,  and  eat  and  drink. — They 
turn  from  the  commonest  avocations  to  look  up 
into  His  face.  They  glorify  God  in  their  body 
as  well  as  in  their  spirit.  They  obey  the  apostle's 
injunction,  **  Whether  therefore  ye  eat,  or  drink, 
or  whatsoever  ye  do,  do  all  to  the  glory  of  God." 
Oh  for  the  grace  to  be  able  to  combine  the  vision 
of  God  with  every  common  incident — to  live 
always  beneath  His  eye  in  the  unrestrained  glad- 
ness of  little  children  in  their  Father's  presence  ! 

Never  a  trial  that  He  is  not  there, 
Never  a  burden  that  He  doth  not  bear; 
Never  a  sorrow  that  He  doth  not  share — 
Moment  by  moment  I'm  under  His  care. 

74 


According  to  all  that  I  show  thee^  .  .  .  evcfi  so 
shall  ye  make  it.  Exodus  xxv.  g. 

IT  was  clear  that  God  would  only  be  responsi- 
ble for  the  material  that  was  needed  for  His 
plan.  If  Moses,  or  the  people,  insisted  on  put- 
ting in  more  than  was  in  his  original  plan,  they 
would  have  to  bear  the  anxiety  of  securing  the 
stuff.  This  is  our  mistake.  We  incur  responsi- 
bilities that  God  does  not  put  on  us ;  we  burden 
our  hearts  with  anxiety  and  care  because  we  in- 
sist on  introducing  so  many  items  into  our  daily 
life,  which  would  not  have  been  there  if  we  had 
but  been  content  with  God's  pattern,  and  ac- 
quiesced in  His  programme. 

This  injunction  is  repeated  in  four  different 
passages,  showing  the  importance  with  which 
God  regards  it.  Indeed,  to  be  on  God's  plan  is 
the  only  place  of  rightness,  safety,  and  joy. 

God^s  plan  in  our  character. — It  is  presented 
in  the  human  life  of  Jesus.  We  are  to  walk  as 
He  walked.  Having  been  called  according  to 
His  purpose,  let  us  never  rest  content  with  any- 
thing less  than  being  conformed  to  the  image  of 
God's  Son. 

God's  plan  in  our  Christian  service. — Not 
seeking  to  resemble  some  other  devoted  life ;  but 
endeavoring  to  be  as  God  would  have  us,  the 
embodiment  of  His  thought,  the  expression  of 
His  conception.  Then  our  efforts  will  be 
crowned  with  success,  and  we  shall  bear  much 
fruit  to  the  glory  of  God. 

God's  plan  for  every  day. — He  has  prepared  a 
scheme  for  the  employment  of  every  hour,  and 
will  show  it  to  us  by  the  indication  of  His  Spirit, 
or  by  the  trend  of  circumstances.  Let  us  abide 
in  Him,  doing  nothing  that  He  does  not  teach, 
doing  all  He  does.  So  life  will  become  a  taber- 
nacle, in  which  the  Shekinah  will  shine  and 
sacrifices  be  offered. 

75 


The  vail  shall  divide  unto  you. 

Exodus  xxvi.  jj. 

THAT  vail  was  rent  when  Jesus  died,  the 
Holy  Ghost  signifying  that  from  that  moment  ac- 
cess was  free  into  the  Holiest.  All  believers  are 
now  welcome  to  draw  near  and  live  in  the  per- 
petual presence  of  God,  their  Father,  even  as 
Jesus  did  in  His  earthly  life,  and  as  He  does  in 
the  Heaven  of  Heavens.  This  is  the  clear  teach- 
ing of  Heb.  X.  19-22: — "Having  therefore, 
brethren,  boldness  to  enter  into  the  holiest  by 
the  blood  of  Jesus,  by  a  new  and  living  way, 
which  He  hath  consecrated  for  us,  through  the 
vail,  that  is  to  say.  His  flesh ;  and  having  a  High 
Priest  over  the  house  of  God ;  let  us  draw  near 
with  a  true  heart,  in  full  assurance  of  faith,  hav- 
ing our  hearts  sprinkled  from  an  evil  conscience 
and  our  bodies  washed  with  pure  water." 

But  there  is  a  deeper  significance  still.  The  new 
and  living  way  was  opened  through  the  rending 
of  the  flesh  of  Jesus  Christ.  As  His  flesh  was 
rent  on  the  Cross,  the  Temple  vail  was  rent  from 
the  top  to  the  bottom.  And  it  is  only  when  we 
have  chosen  the  cross,  with  its  shame  and  death, 
as  the  lot  of  our  self-life,  that  we  can  enter  into 
that  immediate  fellowship  with  God,  which  is 
described  as  '*  within  the  vail." 

How  many  there  are  who  never  get  beyond 
that  dividing  vail !  They  know  the  brazen  altar 
of  Atonement,  the  laver  of  daily  washing,  the 
golden  altar  of  intercession ;  but  they  are  never 
admitted  to  that  blessed  intimacy  of  communion 
which  sees  the  Shekinah  glory  between  the 
cherubim  and  blood-sprinkled  mercy-seat. 

O  Spirit  of  God,  apply  the  blood  to  sprinkle 
our  consciences,  and  the  water  to  cleanse  the 
habits  of  our  daily  life ;  and  lead  us  where  our 
Forerunner  and  Priest  awaits  us. 


76 


Pure  olive  oil  beaten  for  the  Light. 

Exodus  xxvii.  20. 

THE  saintly  McCheyne  used  to  say,  when 
urging  his  brother  ministers  to  diligent  prepara- 
tion for  the  pulpit:  "Beaten  oil  for  the  sanc- 
tuary." And  he  strove  never  to  present  to  his 
people  truth  which  had  not  been  beaten  out  by 
careful  devout  meditation. 

But  there  is  yet  another  thought.  That  lamp 
in  the  Holy  Place  was  an  emblem  of  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Church,  that  is,  of  believers.  As 
the  incense  table  was  a  type  of  their  aspect  to- 
ward God,  as  intercessors,  so  the  seven-branched 
candlestick  was  a  type  of  their  aspect  toward  the 
world,  as  luminaries.  In  the  Book  of  Revelation 
the  Lord  compares  His  churches  to  candlesticks  : 
"the  seven  candlesticks  which  thou  sawest  are 
the  seven  churches." 

The  oil  is,  of  course,  as  always  in  Scripture,  a 
type  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  He  in  us  is  the  only 
source  of  light-bearing.  But  the  beaten  oil  re- 
minds us  of  the  chastisement  and  discipline 
through  which  alone  our  best  testimony  can  be 
given.  The  persecutions  of  the  Church  have 
always  been  the  times  when  she  has  given  her 
fairest,  brightest  witness  to  the  Redeemer.  The 
sufferings  of  believers  have  ever  led  to  the  ten- 
derest,  strongest  words  for  the  Master,  whether 
by  the  sick  bed  or  in  the  hospital  ward.  That 
brokenness  of  spirit,  which  is  the  surest  mark  of 
mature  work  of  God  in  the  heart,  is  also  a  rare 
condition  of  light-giving.  The  more  beaten  and 
broken  you  are,  in  poverty  of  spirit,  the  purer 
will  be  the  heavenly  ray  of  love  and  light  which 
will  shine  forth  from  your  life;  and  it  is  the  pur- 
pose of  God  that  you  should  be  "  blameless  and 
harmless,  the  sons  of  God,  without  rebuke,  in 
the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  nation, 
among  whom  ye  shine  as  lights  in  the  world  " 
(Phil.  ii.  15). 

77 


A  golden  bell  and  a  pomegranate. 

Exodus  xxviii.  34. 

THE  robe  of  the  high  priest's  ephod  was  of 
blue,  the  color  of  heaven,  of  deep  lakes,  of  the 
glacier-crevasse,  of  the  gentian  and  forget-me- 
not.  On  the  hem  of  the  robe  were  these  alter- 
nate bells  and  pomegranates. 

Those  skirts  niay  illustrate  our  own  position. — 
We  dare  not  take  a  high  place  near  the  head  or 
arm ;  but,  thank  God,  there  is  a  place  for  each 
of  us  at  the  skirt,  near  the  foot ;  and  the  holy  oil 
will  reach  us  there,  for  the  Psalmist  tells  us  that 
it  descended  even  to  the  skirts  of  the  high  priest's 
robe.  It  is  a  blessed  thought,  that  we  may  re- 
ceive the  droppings  of  each  anointing  that  falls 
on  the  head  of  Jesus. 

But  the  anointing  of  the  Holy  Ghost  always 
shows  itself  in  sweetness  and  fruitfulness ;  the 
sweetness  of  the  golden  bell,  tinkling  with  every 
movement,  and  the  fruitfulness  of  the  pomegran- 
ate. 

We  must  be  sweet ,  as  well  as  fruitful. — Too 
many  Christian  workers  are  over-tired  and  over- 
wrought; they  are  peevish  and  fretful.  When 
they  come  back  from  meetings  on  which  they 
have  bestowed  their  last  energies,  they  are  neither 
sweet  nor  gentle  to  the  home-circle,  which  has 
been  so  lonesome  during  their  absence. 

We  must  be  fruitful,  as  well  as  sweet. — True 
religion  is  not  a  mere  sentimentality;  it  is 
strong,  healthy,  helpful,  fruit-bearing.  Some 
seem  to  think  that  to  attend  moving  meetings,  to 
be  profuse  in  emotional  tears  and  smiles,  to  make 
profuse  use  of  the  word  dear,  is  to  touch  the 
high-water  mark;  let  them  learn  that  the  worth 
of  our  life  is  measured  by  its  influence  on  others, 
and  its  bearing  fruit,  which  has  in  it  the  seed  of 
reproduction.  "  Herein  is  My  Father  glorified, 
that  ye  bear  much  fruit." 
78 


Thou  shalt  wash  them  with  water. 

Exodus  xxix.  4. 

THIS  chapter  tells  of  the  consecration  to  their 
high  office  of  Aaron  and  his  sons.  The  entire 
family  is  constantly  joined  thus  together  as  one 
in  God's  sight.  Similarly,  Christ  and  His  house 
— which  is  ourselves,  who  believe — are  one.  We 
too  must  be  sprinkled  by  the  blood  on  ear  and 
thumb  and  toe,  as  those  who  have  been  re- 
deemed. We  too  must  be  consecrated  and 
anointed  ;  and  there  must  be  the  cleanliness  of 
which  these  words  speak. 

This  is  where  so  many  have  erred ;  they  have 
sought  consecration,  anointing,  and  the  priestly 
office ;  but  have  not  remembered  that  their 
bodies  must  first  be  washed  with  pure  water. 

We  must  be  clean  in  our  habits. — If  there  is 
anything  in  our  daily  behavior  which  is  not  quite 
clean,  it  must  be  put  away.  There  seems  some 
incongruity  between  the  anointing  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  the  smell  of  spirits  or  fumes  of  to- 
bacco. Any  excessive  indulgence  of  the  flesh, 
even  in  legitimate  directions,  and  all  indulgence 
in  wrong  ones,  are  inconsistent  with  the  life  of 
consecration. 

We  must  be  cleansed  in  our  thoughts. — When- 
ever temptation  is  suggested,  even  though  it  is 
still  in  the  far  distance,  we  must  turn  from  it 
with  loathing,  and  ask  that  the  blood  of  Jesus 
may  go  on  cleansing  hour  by  hour.  *' Cleanse 
the  thoughts  of  our  hearts  by  the  inspiration  of 
Thy  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  may  perfectly  love 
Thee." 

We  must  be  cleansed  in  our  intentions. — The 
self-life  recedes  as  it  is  driven  from  the  outworks 
of  our  nature,  and  goes  deeper  into  the  motives 
and  springs  of  action.  We  discover  that  self  is 
the  spring  of  so  much  of  our  religious  activity. 
Everywhere  we  need  the  laver,  the  hourly  wash- 
ing of  John  xiii. 

79 


upon  the  flesh  of  man  shall  it  not  he  poured. 

Exodus  XXX.  ^2. 

WHAT  perpetual  references  to  the  work  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  under  the  symbol  of  the  Anointing 
Oil,  meet  us  in  these  chapters.  It  becomes  us  to 
ask  ourselves  very  seriously  whether  we  lay  an 
equal  stress  on  it  in  our  daily  experience.  Is  it 
true  of  us,  as  of  those  to  whom  the  Beloved 
Apostle  wrote,  that  the  anointing  which  we  re- 
ceived abideth  in  us  ?  It  is  not  enough  to  have 
the  Spirit  in  us  for  sanctification ;  He  must  be  on 
us  for  service  and  ministry. 

But  He  cannot  come  on  the  flesh  of  the  natural 
man ;  He  descends  only  to  those  who  are  washed, 
consecrated,  set  apart  for  God.  Many  claim  the 
Holy  Spirit's  anointing,  and  try  to  reckon  they 
have  received  it ;  but  they  find  it  fail,  because 
they  desire  it  for  the  flesh. 

There  must  be  no  yielding  to  fleshly  appetite. — 
When  we  were  in  the  flesh,  sinful  passions 
wrought  in  our  members.  But  there  must  be  no 
permission  given  in  these  directions.  A  calm, 
reverent,  self-disciplined  nature  is  alone  fitted  to 
be  the  seat  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  His  nest  and 
home. 

There  must  be  no  gratiflcation  to  worldly  pride 
and  ambition. — Too  many  are  eager  for  the  Holy 
Ghost,  that  they  may  be  able  to  make  a  name,  or 
gather  an  audience ;  but  God  is  not  likely  to  give 
us  His  river  of  throne-water  to  turn  the  mill- 
wheels  of  personal  ambition. 

There  must  be  no  fleshly  striving  after  it. — 
We  wrestle  and  struggle  to  win  the  Spirit,  and 
miss  Him.  It  is  only  when  our  hope  of  attain- 
ing this  blessing  by  our  own  efforts  dies  down, 
and  we  are  humbled  and  broken  before  God; 
when  we  cry  out  to  Him  to  give  what  we  cannot 
win,  that  He  draws  near  and  gives  the  best  of  all 
His  donations. 

80 


/  have  called  by  name  Bezaleel. 

Exodus  xxxi.  2. 

WE  lightly  speak  of  a  man's  occupation  as  his 
callingy  and  fail  to  realize  the  profound  signifi- 
cance of  the  phrase.  One  man  is  called  to  the 
ministry  ;  another  to  the  bar ;  others,  like  Beza- 
leel and  Aholiab,  to  work  in  all  manner  of  work- 
manship. Each  should  realize,  therefore,  that 
faculty,  desire,  circumstance,  constitute  a  Divine 
call,  and  that  there  may  be  as  distinct  a  vocation 
in  the  merchant's  office,  the  tradesman's  shop,  or 
in  the  work  of  a  domestic  servant,  as  in  the 
Church  itself. 

The  morning  bell  that  summons  us  to  daily 
duty  is  the  call  of  our  Father,  bidding  us  to  en- 
gage in  the  toils  to  which  He  has  assigned  us. 
He,  who  gave  Moses  the  plan,  gave  the  artificers 
the  power  to  work  it  in  gold,  silver,  brass,  and 
wood.  Let  this  be  your  faith  ;  and  each  morn- 
ing, as  you  go  to  your  work,  however  distasteful 
it  may  be,  say,  **  God  has  called  me  to  this ;  and 
He  will  fill  me  with  all  the  strength,  wisdom,  and 
grace,  that  I  need  for  its  right-doing." 

Abide  in  your  calling. — Unless  it  is  a  wrong 
or  dishonorable  one,  it  is  better  to  stay  in  it 
than  to  become  restless  and  changeable ;  and  if 
you  must  leave  it,  wait  for  God  to  open  another 
door. 

Find  in  God  the  7nakeweight  to  all  the  defi- 
ciencies of  your  life. — If  you  are  enslaved  by  daily 
duty,  remember  that  in  Christ  you  are  free ;  if 
free  from  daily  toil,  in  Christ  you  are  a  slave. 
The  supply  of  every  deficiency,  the  rectification 
of  every  hardship,  is  to  be  found  in  Jesus. 

Mind  to  do  all  for  God. — To  do  all  in  God 
and  for  Him,  remembering  that  He  sees  and  ac- 
cepts all,  not  according  to  the  results  accom- 
plished, but  to  the  heavenly  and  holy  motives 
that  prompt  the  worker— this  is  to  be  blessed. 
81 


Per  adventure  I  shall  make  an  Ato7iement  for  your 
sin.  Exodus  xxxii.  jo. 

THE  heart  of  Moses  was  full  of  that  great, 
wonderful  new  word,  Atonement.  For  many 
days  God  had  been  telling  him  about  it,  and 
speaking  it  over  and  over  to  his  heart.  He 
seemed,  however,  to  feel  that  no  ordinary  sacri- 
fices would  avail :  the  blood  of  goats  and  bulls 
would  surely  be  insufficient  to  put  away  the  black 
transgression  into  which  Israel  had  fallen.  But 
there  was  rising  in  his  heart  a  resolve,  to  which 
he  gave  expression  when  he  returned  to  God : 
"Blot  me,  I  pray  thee,  out  of  the  book  which 
Thou  hast  written."  He  did  not  realize  that 
his  blood  would  not  avail,  but  that  the  blood  of 
Christ,  who  should,  in  the  fullness  of  times,  offer 
Himself  without  spot  to  God,  alone  could  put 
away  sin. 

In  every  heart  there  is  a  deep  conviction  of  the 
necessity  of  an  Atonefneftt.—T\\\s  is  the  source  of  the 
temples,  altars,  and  sacrifices,  which  have  marked 
the  history  of  every  nation  under  heaven.  Man 
has  felt  as  by  a  natural  instinct  that  some  repara- 
tion was  necessary  to  the  broken  law. 

The  insufficiency  of  animal  sacrifice. — In  the 
Levitical  system  there  was  a  remembrance  of  sin 
made  year  by  year ;  but  the  sin  itself  could  not 
be  purged  by  such  rites.  The  fact  that  the 
worshippers  so  constantly  came  back  to  offer 
their  sacrifices  shows  that  they  were  not  assured. 
The  priests  always  stood :  their  attitude  was  an 
emblem  of  an  unfinished  work. 

The  S2ifficie7icy  of  Chris  fs  Atonement. — He  was 
willing  to  be  cut  off  out  of  the  land  of  the  living 
for  the  transgression  of  His  people ;  and  because 
He  died,  there  is  no  longer  the  '*  —  "  which  in 
Moses'  prayer  speaks  of  uncertainty  ;  but  a  blessed 
assurance  that  we  are  at  one  with  God,  with  each 
other,  and  with  all  holy  beings. 
82 


In  a  Cleft  of  the  Rock. 

Exodus  xxxiii.  22. 

THAT  rock  was  Christ.  In  the  Divine  thought 
the  position  of  Moses,  first  on  the  rock,  and 
afterward  in  its  cleft,  was  a  moving  emblem  of 
the  position  in  which  alone  we  can  dare  to  look 
out  on  the  sublime  progress  of  God's  glory. 

God  is  always  passing  by. — In  the  great  move- 
ments of  history  which  evolve  His  plans,  and  are 
leading  to  Christ's  advent ;  in  the  passage  of  the 
ages,  which  are  His  swift  chariots;  in  storm 
and  catastrophe,  which  break  up  old  forces  and 
forms  of  evil ;  in  the  goodness  of  His  daily  mercy ; 
in  the  revelation  of  His  character — we  are  always 
living  in  the  very  midst  of  God's  presence  and 
power. 

In  our  condition  of  weakness  and  sinfulness 
we  need  a  position  of  stability  and  shelter  from 
which  to  look  on  God. — No  man  can  see  that  face 
of  awful  holiness  and  love  and  live.  Sir  John 
Herschel  says  that  when  sweeping  the  heavens 
with  his  telescope  the  brilliant  Sirius  suddenly 
burst  on  his  view,  he  nearly  fainted.  Who  then 
could  behold  God  !  But  in  Jesus,  we  are  stable, 
established  in  Him,  accepted  in  the  Beloved  ;  and 
in  Him  we  are  covered.  The  full  blaze  of  the 
Divine  glory  is  tempered  to  our  gaze;  it  comes  to 
us  through  the  medium  of  the  pierced  hand.  We 
stand  on  the  rock ;  we  are  hidden  under  the  cov- 
ering hand. 

Our  Rock  was  cleft. — How  scarred  are  the 
great  Alps  !  Their  sides  have  been  split  by  the 
action  of  tempest,  avalanche,  earthquake,  frost, 
and  glacier.  Hence  their  clefts.  But  who  shall 
enumerate  all  that  has  been  borne  by  our  dear 
Lord  for  us  !  What  storms  have  pelted  on  Him, 
that  we  might  have  a  safe  hiding.  On  Calvary, 
a  niche  was  hollowed  in  which  a  world  of  sinners 
may  take  shelter ! 

83 


Moses  wist  not. 

Exodus  xxxiv.  2g. 

UNCONSCIOUSNESS  of  goodness  is  always 
a  main  element  in  the  highest  forms  of  good- 
ness :  in  the  same  way  that  unconsciousness  is 
characteristic  of  the  worst  forms  of  depravity. 
' '  Samson  wist  not  that  the  Lord  had  departed 
from  him." 

Directly  people  become  conscious  of  their 
superiority  to  others,  and  boast  of  it,  it  is  certain 
that  they  have  never  really  seen  the  beauty  of 
God's  holiness,  and  have  no  clear  knowledge  of 
the  condition  of  their  own  hearts.  They  see 
that  they  have  been  cleansed  from  their  old  sins ; 
but  they  do  not  perceive  that  the  spirit  of  selfish- 
ness has  retreated  into  the  springs  of  motive  and 
intention. 

We  are  all  tempted  to  this  terrible  self-con- 
sciousness. We  are  proud  of  being  humble, 
complacent  for  being  lowly,  self-congratulatory 
because  we  take  back-seats.  In  all  this  we  betray 
the  vanity  of  our  pretensions.  This  sort  of  good- 
ness is  like  a  thin  veneer  of  mahogany  on  very 
common  deal. 

The  real  goodness  is  more  conscious  of  the 
remaining  evil  than  of  the  acquired  good ;  of  the 
lingering  darkness  than  of  the  hilltops  smitten 
with  the  dawn ;  of  that  which  has  not  been  at- 
tained. But  we  can  only  attain  this  blessed  con- 
dition by  intimate  and  prolonged  fellowship  with 
God,  in  solitudes  where  human  voices  and  in- 
terests cease  to  distract.  The  brightness  of  which 
Moses  was  unconscious  was  caught  from  the 
Presence-chamber  of  the  Divine  Loveliness.  Ah, 
what  patterns  are  seen  on  the  Mount !  What 
cries  are  uttered  there  I  What  visions  are  seen 
there  !  What  revelations  are  made  there  !  What 
injunctions  are  received  there  !  Oh  for  the  closer 
access,  the  nearer  view,  the  more  intimate  face  to 
face  intercourse,  such  as  is  open  still  to  the  friends 
of  God  ! 

84 


Go  work  all  manner  of  workmanship. 

Exodus  XXXV.  jj-  (R.  v.). 

THERE  was  an  infinite  variety  in  the  contri- 
butions made  to  the  Tabernacle,  from  the  pre- 
cious jewels  of  the  rulers  to  the  acacia  wood  of 
the  poor,  and  the  goats'  hair  of  the  women.  The 
completed  structure  was  a  monument  of  the 
united  gifts,  handicrafts,  and  gems  of  the  entire 
people.  But  in  all  there  was  the  unity  of  the 
spirit,  and  plan,  and  devotion. 

In  the  Church  and  the  world  there  is  a  work 
for  each  of  us  to  do. — It  may  be  a  very  humble 
part  in  the  great  factory — like  minding  the  lift, 
or  stoking  the  furnace,  or  fetching  materials  for 
the  more  skilled  operatives ;  but  there  is  a  berth 
for  each  willing  worker,  if  only  the  will  and  way 
of  God  are  diligently  sought  and  followed. 

This  work  is  suited  to  our  special  powers. — 
He  who  prepares  the  work  for  the  worker,  pre- 
pares the  worker  for  the  work.  Whenever  God 
gives  us  a  task  to  fulfill,  it  is  because  He  sees  in 
us  faculties  for  its  successful  and  happy  accom- 
plishment, in  cooperation  with  Himself.  It  is  a 
mistake  then  to  turn  back  daunted  by  difficulty 
and  opposition.  As  Caleb  and  Joshua  said  of 
the  possessors  of  Canaan,  "  We  be  well  able  to 
overcome  them." 

We  must  bring  our  resources  and  powers  to 
God. — Willing  hearts  were  summoned  to  bring 
their  offerings  to  the  Lord.  The  maker  of  a 
musical  instrument  knows  best  how  to  develop  its 
waiting  music,  and  He  who  created  and  endowed 
us  can  make  the  most  of  us.  Let  us  not  work  for 
Him ;  but  yield  ourselves  to  His  hand,  and  our 
members  as  instruments  of  righteousness  for  His 
service.  We  may  differ  from  all  others  in  the 
special  character  of  our  work  ;  but  it  matters  not, 
so  long  as  God  effects  through  us  His  purpose  in 
our  creation. 

85 


Much  more  than  enough. 

Exodus  xxxvi.  ^. 

THIS  is  always  God's  way.  No  words  could 
better  express  the  Imperial  measure  and  standard 
of  His  dealings  with  His  people.  When  He 
calls  us  out,  as  He  did  Moses,  Bezaleel,  and 
Aholiab,  and  entrusts  us  with  His  plan ;  and 
when  we  are  careful  to  work  out  His  specifica- 
tions ;  He  always  makes  more  than  enough  pro- 
vision for  all  our  need. 

The  redemption  in  Christ  Jesus. — Where  sin 
abounded  grace  did  much  more  abound.  The 
topmost  hills  were  covered  by  the  waters  of  the 
deluge,  and  the  Alpine  heights  of  human  rebel- 
lion were  more  than  atoned  for  when  Jesus  died. 
Grace  overtops  sin. 

God's  ability  to  answer  prayer. — He  does  ex- 
ceeding abundantly  above  all  that  we  ask  or 
think.  We  ask  great  things,  and  secretly  think 
that  if  God  were  to  give  only  a  fraction,  we 
would  be  thankful.  How  we  straiten  Him  1  He 
cannot  do  much  because  of  our  unbelief !  He 
yearns  to  do  not  only  enough,  but  much  more 
than  enough  for  us.  See  His  prodigality  in  na- 
ture :  its  enamelled  shells,  its  profusion  of  flow- 
ers, its  swarming  life. 

In  daily  provision  for  spirit  y  soul,  and  body. — 
Give,  and  it  shall  be  given  to  you,  good  meas- 
ure, pressed  down,  shaken  together,  and  running 
over.  God  is  not  niggard.  If  He  withholds,  it 
is  that  we  may  cling  to  the  Giver  rather  than  the 
gift.  But  for  the  most  part.  He  gives  all  things 
richly  to  enjoy.  He  opens  His  hand,  and  satis- 
fies. Whatever  thy  need,  God  has  much  more 
than  enough  to  meet  it.  He  has  riches  of  grace 
and  of  glory.  Trust  Him,  obey  Him,  appro- 
priate thy  share  in  thy  Father's  rich  provision. 
Weak  and  needy  as  thou  art,  there  is  much  more 
than  enough  strength  in  God  to  perfect  what 
concerns  thee. 

86 


A  mercy-seat  of  pure  gold. 

Exodus  xxxvii.  6» 

THIS  was  the  Propitiatory.  Beneath  it  lay  the 
tables  of  the  law,  which  even  Moses  had  broken, 
almost  as  soon  as  they  came  into  his  hands,  but 
which  had  been  renewed.  Concealing  and 
covering  them  lay  this  golden  lid,  encrusted  with 
the  blood  which  successive  generations  of  priests 
sprinkled  there  on  the  Great  Day  of  Atonement. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  golden  slab 
sets  forth  our  Saviour's  obedience  unto  death. 
God  set  Him  forth  to  be  "the  Propitiation  for 
our  sins ;  and  not  for  ours  only,  but  also  for  the 
sins  of  the  whole  world." 

Our  Lord^s  obedience  is  priceless  in  the  Di- 
vine esteem. — What  pure  gold  is  among  metals, 
that  is  His  advent  to  do  God's  will,  in  compari- 
son with  all  other  endeavors  to  do  it.  It  takes 
the  first  place,  and  is  of  peerless  beauty  and  ex- 
cellence. ''Though  He  were  a  Son,  yet  learned 
He  obedience  by  the  things  which  He  suffered." 

His  obedience  was  to  blood. — His  wounds  tell 
the  story.  He  held  nothing  back ;  but  yielded 
all  to  blood-shedding.  Blood  is  life,  and  life  is 
in  the  Blood  :  this  He  freely  poured  out  to  meet 
the  claims  of  justice,  and  herein  gave  the  sub- 
limest  token  of  His  love. 

His  person  and  work  are  the  medium  of  our 
approach. — In  Jesus  the  Shekinahof  God's  pres- 
ence awaits  us.  On  this  priceless  mercy-seat 
the  Divine  Fire  trembles,  and  we  may  draw  near 
with  boldness.  We  are  beloved  children ;  but 
let  us  never  forget  that  we  are  redeemed  sinners. 

There  is  a  place  where  Jesus  sheds 
The  oil  of  gladness  on  our  heads  ; 
A  place  than  all  beside  more  sweet — 
It  is  the  blood-stained  Mercy-seat. 

87 


The  laver  .  .  .  of  the  mirrors  of  the  serving- 
women.  Exodus  xxxviii.  8  (R.  v.). 

THIS  was  a  good  use  to  put  these  mirrors  to. 
The  women  were  so  deeply  interested  in  the 
work  which  was  afoot,  that  they  counted  no 
sacrifice  too  great.  But  the  main  suggestion  for 
ourselves  is  the  wisdom  of  renouncing  self-in- 
spection. 

The  mirror  speaks  of  self -scrutiny. — We  are 
constantly  holding  up  the  mirror  to  our  inner 
life,  studying  its  mechanism  and  operations.  Our 
fingers  often  on  our  pulse ;  the  attention  of  the 
soul  turned  back  on  itself;  the  study  of  symp- 
toms carried  to  the  grievous  extent  of  inducing 
the  diseases  which  we  dread.  Of  course,  where 
there  is  evident  mischief  at  work,  we  do  well  to 
take  heed ;  but  we  must  guard  against  a  morbid 
self-anatomy,  a  perpetual  analysis  of  motive  and 
intention,  an  inwardness  which  diverts  our  atten- 
tion from  the  person  of  Christ  and  the  perform- 
ance of  duty. 

The  evils  of  self-scruti^iy. — If  we  look  down 
into  the  depths  of  our  own  nature,  we  miss  the 
face  of  Jesus.  To  consider  self  is  to  become  in- 
volved in  a  maze  of  perplexities  and  disappoint- 
ments. The  disease  cannot  be  cured  by  cease- 
lessly pondering  its  symptoms.  The  soul  cannot 
lift  the  soul.  Self  can  never  expel  the  spirit  of 
self. 

Its  cure, — These  women  became  so  interested 
in  the  service  of  the  Tabernacle  that  they  were 
weaned  from  their  mirrors.  The  better  expelled 
the  worse ;  the  higher  cast  out  the  lower.  Go 
out  of  yourself,  find  some  work  to  do  for  God 
and  man  ;  seek  in  the  laver  the  removal  of  the 
strains  of  human  sin ;  find  your  centre  in  God 
and  His  plans ;  and  you  will  abandon  the  habit 
of  morbid  self-scrutiny.  For  every  look  at  self, 
take  ten  at  Christ:  He  "healeth  all  thy  dis- 
eases. ' ' 


Holy  to  the  Lord. 

Exodus  xxxix.  jo  (R.  v.). 

ZECHARIAH  tells  us  that  these  words  were 
to  be  written  on  the  bells  of  the  horses.  The 
sacred  inscription,  which  stood  on  the  brow  of 
Aaron,  designating  his  separation  to  his  sublime 
office,  was  to  become  incorporated  with  the  busi- 
ness of  the  farm  and  city,  where  burdens  were 
borne  and  heavy  weights  drawn  with  difficulty. 
The  inscription  befits  all  bells  that  ring  in  the 
home,  the  shop,  the  factory.  We  are  to  be 
God's  priests  everywhere. 

The  priest  was  separated  from  all  impurity. — 
We  must  be  in  the  world,  but  separate  from  its 
sin.  When  evil  threatens  us  from  a  distance,  we 
must  be  sensitive  to  its  approach,  and  quick  to 
put  the  covering  presence  of  Christ  between. 

The  priest  was  separated  to  holy  service. — He 
was  keenly  sensitive  to  the  honor  of  Jehovah,  and 
to  the  demands  of  His  service.  Rather  be  cut 
down  at  His  altar,  like  Zechariah  the  son  of 
Berachiah,  than  prove  a  delinquent.  We  cannot 
all  do  the  inner  service  of  offering  incense  and 
of  blessing  men,  but  we  can  render  every  act  as  a 
sacred  service  to  God ;  always  treading  the  holy 
floor,  and  within  sight  of  the  holy  presence,  and 
within  earshot  of  the  Divine  voice ;  eating,  drink- 
ing, doing  everything  for  the  glory  of  God. 
Throughout  this  chapter  we  are  reminded  that 
all  was  made  as  the  Lord  commanded  Moses ; 
this  should  be  the  law  of  our  life. 

The  priest  bore  holiness  written  where  all 
could  read  it ;  so  should  we. — It  should  not  be 
necessary  for  us  to  be  labelled.  For  men  to  need 
telling  that  we  are  Christians,  is  a  sign  that  we 
are  far  from  what  we  should  be.  But  so  to  live 
that  the  first  and  slightest  glance  at  us  should  be- 
tray our  heavenly  calling,  is  to  adorn  the  Gospel 
and  please  our  Master. 

89 


The  cloud  of  the  Lord  by  day,   .   .   .   and  there 
was  fire  therein  by  night.       Exodus  xl.  38  (r.  v.). 

THIS  was  the  cloud  of  the  Shekinah,  in  the 
heart  of  which  was  fire,  the  symbol  of  the  pres- 
ence of  God.  Probably  this  fire  was  always 
present,  but  only  visible  against  the  background 
of  the  surrounding  darkness.  In  the  New  Testa- 
ment fire  is  always  associated  with  the  ministry 
of  the  Holy  Spirit ;  and  in  Isaiah  (iv.  5)  we  learn 
that  in  the  coming  time  God  would  give,  on 
every  dwelling-place  in  Mount  Zion,  and  in  all 
her  assemblies,  the  same  cloud  of  smoke  by  day, 
and  flaming  fire  by  night,  as  had  been  vouchsafed 
to  the  Tabernacle  where  God  dwelt.  What  a 
glorious  revelation  is  this  ! 

The  Holy  Spirit  brooding  over  each  individual 
believer. — It  is  a  symptom  of  the  highest  life, 
when  God  spreads  His  tabernacle  over  the  soul. 
We  should  march  only  when  He  lifts  up  His  en- 
folding presence,  rest  under  His  canopy,  and 
recognize  the  sanctity  of  all  life. 

The  Holy  Spirit  resting  on  each  home. — 
*' Every  dwelling-place  in  Zion"  must  stand  for 
the  homes  of  God's  people.  How  blessed  it  is 
when  the  home  is  a  temple,  and  each  inmate  of 
the  beloved  circle  a  priest !  Such  homes  are 
rare,  but  they  are  possible.  Let  those  who  are 
founding  a  new  family  make  this  their  ideal. 

The  Holy  Spirit  directing  and  filling  each  as- 
sembly and  believer. — As  of  old  the  movements  of 
the  cloud  determined  those  of  the  tent  and  peo- 
ple, so  in  the  Pentecostal  Church  the  Spirit  was 
Guide,  Director,  Executor.  "  Separate  i^/^  .  .  . 
to  the  work  to  which  /have  called  them."  We 
must  rely  most  absolutely  on  Him,  waiting  for 
His  initiation,  His  teaching,  the  settling  down  of 
His  infinite  benediction.  Then  there  will  be 
glory  and  defence. 

90 


A  sweet  savor  unto  the  Lord. 

Lev.  i.  9,  /J,  ly. 

HOW  sweet  the  offering  up  of  the  Son  was  to 
the  Fatlier  !  "Christ  also  hath  loved  us,  and 
hath  given  Himself  for  us  an  offering  and  a  sacri- 
fice to  God  for  a  sweet-smelling  savor  "  (Eph.  v. 
2).  The  burnt-offering  was  an  imperfect  type  of 
His  entire  devotion  to  His  Father's  will.  When 
Jesus  saw  the  inability  of  man  to  keep  the  holy 
law,  and  volunteered  to  magnify  it,  and  make  it 
honorable ;  when  He  laid  aside  His  glory,  and 
stepped  down  from  His  throne,  saying,  side- 
light to  do  Thy  will,  O  my  God  "  ;  when  He  be- 
came obedient  even  to  the  death  of  the  cross — it 
was  as  sweet  to  God  as  the  fragrance  of  a  garden 
of  flowers  to  us. 

Let  us  never  forget  the  God  ward  aspect  of  the 
cross.  The  sacrificial  fire  fed  on  every  part  of 
the  sacrifice,  on  the  inwards  as  well  as  the  car- 
case ;  so  did  the  Holy  God  delight  to  witness 
the  spotless  and  entire  devotion  of  the  Son  to  the 
great  work  in  which  the  entire  Godhead  was 
most  deeply  interested.  The  fragrant  graces  of 
Christ  were  made  manifest  on  the  cross,  and  are 
perpetuated  in  His  intercession. 

There  is  a  sense  also  in  which  our  consecration 
to  God  is  fragrant  and  precious.  When  we  see 
His  claims,  and  yield  to  them  ;  when  we  submit 
to  His  will,  and  commit  our  lives  wholly  to  His 
direction ;  when  we  offer  and  present  ourselves 
to  Him,  a  living  sacrifice,  keeping  nothing  back 
— His  heart  is  gladdened,  and  His  fire  of  com- 
placency feeds  on  our  act.  Always  count  on 
this ;  you  may  feel  no  thrill,  and  see  no  light,  but 
reckon  on  God,  believe  that  He  accepts  what 
you  give,  and  will  crown  your  sacrifice  with  the 
fire  of  Pentecost.  Who  to-day  will  surrender  to 
God,  and  become  an  offering  of  a  sweet  savor? 
91 


Fine  flour ^  and  He  shall  pour  oil  upon  it  and 
put  frankincense  thereon.  Lev.  ii.  i. 

THIS  type  is  only  true  in  its  fullest  extent  of 
the  blessed  Master ;  but  as  we  are  to  be  con- 
formed to  His  image,  we  may  humbly  take  the 
ingredients  of  the  meat  offering  as  indicating 
various  qualities  in  our  personal  character  and 
behavior. 

Fine  flour. — There  should  be  nothing  coarse- 
grained or  rough  to  the  touch  ;  but  all  even  and 
tender.  So  that  however  great  the  pressure 
brought  to  bear  on  us,  we  should  meet  it  with 
perfect  grace  and  gentleness.  Jesus  reviled  not 
again,  but  was  led  as  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter. 
David  Livingstone  said  that  the  promise  of  Christ 
was  the  word  of  a  perfect  gentleman.  This 
should  be  our  character. 

Oil  upon  it. — We  must  be  mingled  with  oil — 
that  is  the  Holy  Spirit  must  have  access  into  the 
secret  places  of  the  inner  life,  and  we  must  have 
the  anointing  of  the  Holy  Ghost  for  service.  In 
Christian  work  nothing  is  of  any  value  or  perma- 
nence, useful  to  man  or  pleasing  to  God,  in  which 
the  Holy  Spirit  is  not  first. 

Fratikincense. — Every  act  of  our  life  should 
emit  sweet  fragrance  toward  God.  Always  mov- 
ing forward  in  Christ's  triumphant  procession, 
bearing  aloft  the  incense — bowls  of  thought, 
action,  word,  filled  with  love  and  praise. 

Salt. — "Let  your  conversation  be  always  with 
grace,  seasoned  with  salt."  The  words  of  Jesus 
were  full  of  grace,  and  also  of  truth.  There  was 
a  pungency  and  purity  and  uncorruptness  in  His 
speech,  which  have  in  every  age  arrested  the 
progress  of  the  world's  evil.  Let  us  give  Him 
our  lips. 

No  leaven — the  symbol  of  the  rising  of  pride 
and  self. 

No  honey — that  which  is  merely  attractive  and 
sensuous. 

82 


A  sacrifice  of  Peace-offering. 

Lev.  Hi.  I 

IN  the  burnt-offering  the  priest  burnt  all ;  but 
in  the  peace-offering  a  part  only  was  burned, 
"the  fat,  kidneys,  and  caul."  The  inner  parts 
were  consumed  as  God's  portion,  whilst  Aaron 
and  his  sons  fed  on  the  breast  and  the  shoulder. 
In  that  feast  God  and  the  priests  participated ; 
and  it  is  an  emblem  of  our  participation  in  the 
joy  of  God,  over  the  person  and  work  of  Jesus. 

Think  of  this  blessed  feast  with  God.  We 
who  were  once  far  off  in  the  wicked  and  hostile 
imaginings,  are  now  made  nigh;  we  sit  at  God's 
table  as  His  children,  and  hear  Him  say.  Let  us 
make  merry  and  be  glad ;  this  My  son  was  dead, 
and  is  alive  again. 

We  have  Peace  ivith  God. — We  are  justified 
by  faith  in  Jesus.  In  Hira  we  stand  before  God, 
accepted  and  beloved.  The  curse  is  exchanged 
for  blessing  ;  distance  for  presence ;  the  husks 
of  the  swine  for  the  fatted  calf.  The  past  is  for- 
ever under  the  blood ;  above  us  is  the  clear 
heaven  of  God's  love. 

We  have  the  Peace  of  God. — The  very  peace 
that  fills  our  Father's  heart,  undisturbed  by  the 
storms  of  care  and  strife  which  sweeps  this  lower 
world,  is  ours  also.  We  sit  in  heavenly  places; 
His  peace,  like  a  sentry,  keeps  our  hearts  and 
minds  against  molestation  ;  the  peace  of  God 
rules  in  us,  bringing  every  thought  into  subjec- 
tion to  itself.  We  have  perfect  peace  because  our 
mind  is  stayed  on  Him. 

We  have  the  God  of  Peace. — According  to  the 
Apostle's  fervent  hope  and  prayer.  He  is  with  us. 
Not  the  gift,  but  the  Giver;  not  I,  but  He;  not 
the  river  only,  but  the  source.  We  may  well 
open  our  doors  to  admit  such  a  guest,  in  having 
whom  we  received  the  Author  and  Giver  of  con- 
cord, unity,  and  unbroken  rest. 
93 


If  a  soul  shall  st?t  through  ignorance. 

Lev.  iv.  2. 

SIN  is  something  more  than  that  of  which  our 
conscience  convicts  us.  Our  conscience  may  ex- 
cuse or  palliate  our  sins,  or  may  fail  to  detect 
them  for  want  of  proper  enlightenment,  or  may 
be  misled  by  the  practices  and  sentiments  of  those 
around.  Therefore  we  may  do  things  which  are 
grievously  wrong  in  God's  sight  without  realizing 
their  evil  or  bemoaning  it. 

All  such  sin  must  be  met  and  atoned  for  ere 
God  can  admit  us  into  His  holy  presence.  Sin 
must  be  dealt  with  and  put  away,  not  only  as  it 
appears  to  us,  but  as  it  is  in  itself  and  in  the 
sight  of  the  All-Holy.  So,  in  the  types  of  Levit- 
icus, provision  was  made  for  sins  of  ignorance ; 
and  the  blood  of  Jesus  cleanseth  from  all  sin, 
whether  known  to  us  or  not. 

There  is  more  sin  in  us  than  any  of  us  know. 
If  we  think  we  have  passed  a  day  without  con- 
scious sin,  we  have  only  to  wait  till  an  intenser 
light  is  flashed  on  our  motives  and  intentions — 
for  firelight  to  be  exchanged  for  electric  light — 
and  we  shall  see  specks  and  flaws.  If  we  do  not 
actually  violate  known  commands,  there  may  be 
a  grievous  coming  short  of  the  infinite  standard 
of  the  Divine  perfection.  Who  shall  dare  to  say 
that  be  has  loved  God  with  all  his  heart,  and 
soul,  and  strength  ?  Besides,  there  is  always  the 
liability  to  sinfulness;  and  this  needs  to  be  per- 
petually met  and  atoned  for. 

It  is  very  needful,  then,  for  us  to  be  perpet- 
ually cleansed  in  the  precious  blood  of  Christ. 
We  must  ask  to  be  forgiven  for  the  many  sins 
which  we  know  not,  as  well  as  for  those  we 
know.  The  work  of  confession  and  forgiveness 
must  therefore  go  on  to  life's  end,  applied  to 
each  heart  and  conscience  by  the  Holy  Spirit. 
94 


He  shall  confess  that  ivherein  he  hath  sinnedy 
and  bring  his  Guilt-offering.     Lev.  v.  5,  6  (r.  v.). 

IT  is  said  that  sometimes  a  soldier  will  come 
from  the  battle  bleeding  from  a  hidden  wound 
which  he  has  received  without  knowing  it.  So 
in  the  rush  of  life  we  may  contract  defilement  by 
touching  uncleanness,  or  speaking  rashly,  which 
in  the  sight  of  God  will  leave  a  foul  stain  upon 
the  white  robe  of  the  soul. 

The  presence  of  unconscious  sin  with  us  is  the 
reason  why  we  are  often  unable  to  pray  or  read 
the  Word  of  God  at  night.  We  are  aware  of  a 
certain  distance,  a  vail,  a  cloud,  which  has  set- 
tled down  between  us  and  the  beatific  vision. 
At  such  times  we  do  well  to  examine  ourselves 
and  the  past  more  critically;  for  probably  we 
shall  be  able  to  detect  the  hidden  cause,  which, 
when  we  know  it,  must  be  confessed  and  placed 
on  the  head  of  our  guilt-offering,  whilst  we  yield 
ourselves  to  God  as  a  whole  burnt-offering,  in  a 
new  act  of  self-surrender. 

But  confession  is  all  important.  We  must 
confess  our  sins,  if  the  faithful  Lord  is  to  forgive 
them.  Confession  is  taking  God's  side  against 
ourselves.  It  is  the  act  of  judging  evil  in  the 
light  of  the  Throne.  It  is  like  the  unpacking  of 
a  box,  in  which  one  begins  with  the  lighter 
things  at  the  top,  and  works  steadily  down  to  the 
heavy  articles  underneath.  It  is  the  repetition 
in  the  heart  of  Joshua's  calling  the  roll  of  Israel 
until  Achan,  the  son  of  Carmi,  was  taken. 

When  the  atonement  has  been  made  as  touch- 
ing sin  *'in  any  of  these  things,"  there  is  for- 
giveness. Dare  to  believe  that  this  is  so,  O  peni- 
tent soul,  who  hast  made  Christ's  soul  an  offering 
for  thy  sin.  He  says:  "I  have  blotted  out,  as 
a  thick  cloud,  thy  transgressions,  and  as  a  cloud 
thy  sins."  Go  thy  way,  and  sin  no  more. 
95 


Fire  shall  be  kept  burning  upon  the  altar  contin- 
ually ;  it  shall  not  go  out.  Lev.  vi.  7j  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  an  emblem  of  the  perpetual  work  of 
God  for  man. 

The  Love  of  God. — There  never  was  a  time 
when  God  did  not  love.  The  bush  that  Moses 
saw  gave  no  fuel  to  maintain  the  holy  flame  that 
trembled  around  it,  because  the  love  of  God  to 
Israel  and  to  the  human  race  demands  no  suste- 
nance. Through  the  ages  it  burns  and  will  burn ; 
however  much  indifference  and  neglect  and  re- 
jection are  heaped  upon  it,  or  poured  over  it, 
like  barrels  of  water  over  Elijah's  sacrifice,  it 
never  goes  out.  It  is  as  fresh  and  vigorous  to- 
day as  ever,  and  waits  to  consume  your  sin  and 
mine  ;  for  God  is  a  consuming  fire. 

The  Intercession  of  Christ. — As  the  ages  pass, 
this  sacrifice  retains  its  merit.  What  He  did  as 
Priest  on  the  cross.  He  does  as  Priest  on  the 
throne.  It  is  always  "  this  same  Jesus."  What 
He  was.  He  is,  and  will  be ;  and  as  generations 
of  saints  bring  their  gifts  to  the  altar.  He  takes 
them,  and  lifts  them  up  to  God,  as  the  fire  bears 
up  the  substances  which  are  submitted  to  it.  He 
ever  liveth  to  make  intercession ;  and  the  fire 
that  burned  through  the  long  night  in  the  Taber- 
nacle bore  witness  to  the  undimming,  unwaning 
virtue  of  our  Saviour's  work. 

The  Ministry  of  the  Holy  Ghost. — The  fire 
that  was  lit  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost  burns  still 
in  the  Church.  There  has  been  no  intermission 
to  its  presence  from  the  first  day  till  now.  Mul- 
titudes of  unknown  sects  and  persecuted  saints 
have  kept  that  fire  burning  in  the  world.  On 
the  perpetuity  of  its  existence  in  our  midst  de- 
pends the  constancy  of  our  own  love  and  purity 
and  prayer.  If  the  fire  shall  never  go  out  in  our 
hearts ;  if  the  life  in  our  spirits  is  indeed  ever- 
lasting— it  is  because  He  lives  and  loves  always. 
96 


Every  one  that  is  clean  shall  eat  thereof. 

Lev.  vii.  ig  (r.  v.). 

IN  verse  13,  it  is  admitted  that  leaven  must  be 
present  in  this  holy  feast,  inasmuch  as  it  stands 
for  the  essential  principle  of  evil,  which  intrudes 
into  our  holiest  worship.  The  self-life  is  an  all- 
pervasive  leaven.  We  may  not  be  conscious  of 
it ;  there  may  be  no  sufficient  recognition  of  its 
distastefulness  to  the  holy  God :  but  it  follows  us 
even  into  the  Holy  place. 

The  worshipper  was  not  allowed,  however,  to 
be  knowingly  unclean.  There  must  be  no  stain 
on  the  conscience,  which  he  might  remove  by 
confession  and  repentance.  If  there  were,  he 
must  be  cut  off;  that  is,  he  must  be  debarred 
from  all  participation  in  holy  rites,  and  suspended 
from  entering  the  sacred  enclosure  of  the  Taber- 
nacle. 

This  cutting  off  answers  to  the  suspension  of  a 
believer's  communion  with  God,  because  of  un- 
confessed  sin.  The  presence  of  the  leaven  of  the 
self-life  is  no  barrier  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
Divine  fellowship,  for  we  meet  God  in  Jesus. 
But  permitted  sin  makes  such  fellowship  im- 
possible, because  we  have  not  availed  ourselves 
of  the  gracious  arrangements  made  by  God  for  the 
perpetual  cleansing  of  the  soul  in  the  precious 
blood  of  Jesus  Christ.  For  "it  is  the  blood  that 
maketh  an  atonement  for  the  soul." 

How  many  excommunicate  Christians  there 
are  !  You  can  easily  see  that  they  have  been  cut 
off;  their  joyless  faces  and  powerless  prayers, 
their  inability  to  bear  testimony  for  God — all  tell 
the  sad  story.  If  you  have  been  cut  off,  search 
your  past  history  to  discover  the  cause.  Put 
away  your  sin,  and  seek  the  blessed  cleansing  of 
John  xiii. ;  then  come  to  feast  with  God,  in  holy 
communion,  as  at  a  common  table. 


97 


Ve  shall  not  go  out. 

Lev.  via.  33. 

FOR  seven  days  Aaron  and  his  sons,  newly 
consecrated  by  the  blood  and  oil,  waited  together 
in  the  Holy  Place.  They  were  prohibited  from 
going  beyond  the  door,  but  fed  on  the  consecrated 
food  till  the  eighth  day  summoned  them  to  begin 
their  priestly  duties.  Similarly  we  are  shut  in 
with  our  Great  Aaron,  the  High  Priest  of  our 
profession.  We  are  in  Christ  in  the  purposes  of 
God,  for  we  were  chosen  in  Him  before  the 
foundation  of  the  world.  We  are  in  Him,  as 
Noah  was  in  the  ark,  and  as  the  child  is  in  the 
home ;  as  the  member  is  in  the  body,  and  the 
branch  in  the  vine  ;  as  the  sponge  in  the  ocean, 
or  the  jewel  in  the  sunbeam.  We  are  in  Him  as 
a  strong  enclosure,  through  which  the  malice  and 
strength  of  our  foes  cannot  break — a  fortress,  a 
strong  tower,  a  castle  keep.  We  are  in  Him,  as 
a  banqueting-hall,  a  Tabernacle  with  its  shevv- 
bread,  an  upper  room  with  its  descending  fire. 

It  is  highly  necessary  that  we  should  maintain 
our  walk  and  experience  on  this  blessed  elevation. 
The  great  enemy  of  our  souls  is  perpetually  tempt- 
ing us  to  leave  our  abiding-place,  and  to  try 
issues  with  him  in  the  plains  beneath.  What  is 
temptation  but  his  subtle  solicitation  to  come  out 
from  the  secret  place  of  the  Most  High.  Beware  ! 
the  bait  may  be  very  attractive,  but  the  end  is 
death.  Keep  the  charge  of  the  Lord,  and  abide 
day  and  night  in  the  company  of  the  Great  High 
Priest.     '*  He  shall  dwell  among  them." 

On  what  viands  do  such  happy  souls  feast 
with  Christ  !  A  table  is  provided  before  them 
by  the  Lord  Himself,  and  they  feast  on  all 
that  pertains  to  Him  in  blessed  partnership. 
"  Son,  thou  art  ever  with  Me,  and  all  that  I  have 
is  thine." 


98 


Aaron  lifted  up  his  hand  toward  the  people y  and 
blessed  them.  Lev.  ix.  22. 

THE  eighth  day  is  evidently  the  type  of  the 
bright  millennial  morning.  During  the  present 
age  we  are  hidden  with  Christ  in  God  ;  the  world 
knoweth  us  not,  as  it  knew  Him  not ;  our  hopes, 
and  joys,  and  aims,  are  largely  secret.  But  the 
day  is  not  far  distant  when  He  shall  be  mani- 
fested, and  then  we  shall  be  manifested  with  Him 
in  glory.  That  group  of  priests,  following  the 
high  priest  out  from  the  recesses  of  the  Holy 
Place,  is  a  picture  of  the  Second  Advent,  when 
Christ  and  His  own  shall  come  forth  to  bless  the 
world.  When  Jesus  was  parted  in  the  Ascension 
from  His  disciples.  He  was  in  the  act  of  blessing 
them  ;  and  in  that  attitude  He  will  return.  Who 
can  doubt  that  all  through  the  intervening  ages 
those  blessed  hands  have  still  been  outstretched, 
that  heart  ever  going  forth,  in  blessing. 

What  a  Saviour  is  ours  !  In  Him  are  combined 
meekness  that  bears  all  insult  and  hatred,  and 
mercy  that  retaliates  on  wrongdoing  in  ministries 
of  love.  He  fulfills  His  own  idea  of  blessing 
those  that  hate,  and  praying  for  those  that 
despitefully  use.  How  truly  can  it  be  said  of 
Him,  as  of  Archbishop  Ussher,  that  to  do  him  a 
wrong  is  to  make  him  your  friend  forever  ! 

Let  us  imitate  Him  in  this,  and  let  the  going 
forth  of  our  lives  be  one  incessant  stream  of 
benediction  to  men,  until  they  shall  fall  on  their 
faces  and  acknowledge  the  overwhelming  power 
of  love.  But  in  order  to  this  we  must  be  much 
in  company  with  our  blessed  Lord  ;  gazing  on 
His  face  we  shall  reflect  His  likeness ;  the 
lineaments  of  the  Divine  beauty  shall  pass  into 
our  life,  and  light  it  up  with  a  loveliness  which 
is  not  of  earth.  Thus  shall  we  bring  glory  to  our 
God. 


Aaron  held  his  peace. 

Lev.  X.  J. 

HIS  heart  must  have  been  rent  with  paroxysms 
of  grief,  as  he  beheld  the  bodies  of  his  beloved 
sons  on  the  floor  of  the  Tabernacle,  stretched  out 
in  death.  He  repressed  the  cry,  choked  back 
the  sob,  staunched  the  flowing  tear,  and  con- 
tinued to  perform  the  holy  duties  with  which  he 
was  charged.  He  was  no  stoic,  and  tears  are  not 
wrong  for  our  dead ;  but  his  relationship  to  God 
was  so  overmastering  as  to  still  the  expressions 
of  nature. 

He  saw  the  wrong  from  God's  standpoint. — 
It  was  of  great  importance  that  the  Divine  regu- 
lations and  enactments  should  be  maintained,  and 
that  the  ministering  priests  should  always  prefer 
God's  work  and  service  above  their  own  ideas. 
Aaron  was  able  to  appreciate  that  position,  and 
saw  the  sin  of  which  his  children  were  guilty. 
They  had  forgotten  the  voice  which  said.  Sanctify 
thou  Me.  Obedience  is  the  foundation  of  rever- 
ence, honor,  and  service ;  and  if  it  were  relaxed 
with  the  priests,  how  for  the  people  !  How  care- 
ful they  should  be  who  bear  the  vessels  of  the 
Lord  1  With  what  fear  and  trembling  must  they 
work,  who  work  with  God  ! 

He  acquiesced  in  the  Divine  deali^igs. — To  take 
the  yoke,  and  meekly  bear  it ;  to  put  the  hand  on 
the  mouth,  and  bow  in  the  dust — this  is  rest  and 
peace.  In  this  way  we  drink  Christ's  cup  and 
become  partakers  of  His  sufferings. 

He  felt  that  his  work  as  priest  must  take  pre- 
cedence.— It  was  a  solemn  and  awful  thing  to  be 
God's  anointed  priest,  and  the  office  must  come 
first,  even  to  the  denial  of  the  dues  of  nature,  if 
that  were  necessary :  so  always  with  us,  there 
must  be  the  subordination  of  everything  to  our 
service  and  work  for  God. 
100 


Whatsoever  parteth  the  hoof  and  cheweth  the  cud. 

Lev.  xi.  J"  (R.  v.). 

THE  animals,  in  which  these  two  characteris- 
tics met,  were  reckoned  clean,  and  therefore  fit 
for  food.  It  is  certain  that  the  minute  particu- 
larity of  these  words  has  some  further  reference 
than  to  the  diet  of  Israel,  important  though  that 
was,  or  to  accentuate  with  every  meal  the  neces- 
sity of  their  being  a  separate  people.  We,  at 
least,  may  gather  this  lesson,  that  in  our  daily 
experience  we  must  combine  meditation  and 
separation. 

Meditation. — The  cattle  do  not  simply  browse 
on  the  pastures,  but  they  lie  down  to  chew  the 
cud.  It  is  not  enough  to  peruse  our  allotted 
Scripture  portion;  we  must  ruminate  upon  it, 
comparing  spiritual  things  with  spiritual,  and 
scripture  with  scripture.  The  Holy  Ghost  will 
take  of  the  things  of  Christ  and  show  them  unto 
us,  and  He  will  bring  all  things  to  our  remem- 
brance. 

Separation. — '*  Whosoever  doeth  not  righteous- 
ness is  not  of  God."  '^  The  Word  of  God  is 
quick,  and  powerful,  and  sharper  than  any  two- 
edged  sword,  piercing  even  to  the  dividing  asun- 
der of  soul  and  spirit,  and  of  the  joints  and 
marrow,  and  is  a  discerner  of  the  thoughts  and 
intents  of  the  heart."  We  have  not  meditated  to 
good  purpose  unless  we  have  felt  its  keen  edge. 
Detachment  from  the  world  must  follow  on  true 
attachment  to  Christ.  Love  to  Naomi  will  draw 
Ruth  from  Moab  across  the  Jordan. 

The  two  must  be  combined. — The  swine  di- 
videth  the  hoof,  but  cheweth  not  the  cud,  and 
was  therefore  unclean.  A  man  may  profess  to 
love  his  Bible,  but  the  supreme  test  is  his  daily 
separation  from  evil.  On  the  other  hand,  our 
daily  life  ought  to  emanate,  not  from  without, 
which  is  Pharisaism,  but  from  within,  where  we 
chew  the  cud  of  holy  meditation. 
101 


Two  young  pigeons . 

Lev.  xii.  8. 

THESE  were  the  offerings  of  the  poor,  of 
those  whose  means  did  not  suffice  to  buy  a  lamb. 
All  these  offerings  pointed  to  the  one  great  Sacri- 
fice which  was  to  be  offered  on  Calvary. 

The  blood  of  Christ  is  within  the  reach  of  the 
poorest  a7id  feeblest. — None  can  say  'that  it  is  be- 
yond them,  that  they  cannot  afford  to  procure  it, 
that  they  are  too  poor.  To  the  poor  the  Gospel 
is  preached.  The  Divine  call  is  to  those  who 
have  no  money.  Salvation  is  to  him  that  work- 
eth  not,  but  believeth  on  Him  that  justifieth  the 
ungodly.     "  It  is  nigh  thee." 

The  faith  that  apprehends  but  a  part  of  the 
Saviour's  work  saves. — The  pigeon  may  stand 
for  the  meagre  apprehension  of  Christ  that  is  the 
portion  of  the  faltering  and  timid ;  but  it  saves 
equally  with  that  fuller  conception  of  His  saving 
work,  which  might  be  compared  to  the  bullock 
of  the  priest.  The  question  is  not  as  to  the 
quantity  but  the  object  of  faith.  Is  it  fixed  on 
Jesus?  All  faith  directed  to  Him  cannot  but  be 
genuine.  It  may  but  touch  His  garment's  hem, 
yet  it  saves. 

The  beneficence  of  God' s  law. — What  tender 
touches  there  are  through  this  strong  ancient 
code  1  There  is  such  a  one  here,  framed  partly 
in  anticipation  of  the  mother  of  our  Lord,  who 
gladly  availed  herself  of  its  provision.  What  a 
glimpse  into  our  Master's  humiliation  !  He 
owned  the  cattle  on  a  thousand  hills,  yet  He  so 
emptied  Himself  that  His  parents  were  com- 
pelled to  bring  the  poorest  offering  the  law  al- 
lowed. He  stooped  that  we  might  rise;  emptied 
Himself  that  we  might  be  full ;  became  poor  that 
we  might  be  made  rich ;  was  made  human  that 
we  might  be  made  Divine. 
102 


BeJuld,  if  the  leprosy  have  covered  all  his  fleshy 
lie  shall  pronounce  him  clean.  Lev.  xiU.  ij. 

AT  first  sight  this  seems  a  very  extraordinary 
])rovision.  When  the  leprosy  was  beginning  to 
show  itself,  and  whilst  the  marks  were  hardly  dis- 
tinguishable, the  poor  patient  was  treated  as  un- 
clean ;  but,  when  it  was  fully  developed,  from 
the  crown  of  the  head  to  the  sole  of  the  foot,  the 
priest  pronounced  the  leper  clean. 

As  long  as  we  palliate  and  excuse  our  sins,  and 
dream  that  there  is  much  in  us  which  is  noble 
and  lovely,  we  are  not  fit  subjects  for  God's  sav- 
ing grace.  But  when  we  take  our  place  as  help- 
less and  undone,  without  one  plea  or  one  redeem- 
ing trait,  we  are  in  the  position  in  which  the  free 
grace  of  God  can  have  its  blessed  way  with  us. 

We  must  come  to  an  end  of  ourselves,  and  fall 
prostrate,  in  the  very  helplessness  of  our  despair, 
in  the  very  dust  at  our  Saviour's  feet;  we  must 
confess  that  from  the  crown  of  our  head  to  the 
sole  of  our  foot  we  are  full  of  need  and  sin — then 
we  are  nearest  Christ,  and  in  a  fit  condition  to  be 
richly  blest,  and  made  the  channel  of  blessing  to 
others. 

Would  you  rise  ?  then  you  must  humble  your- 
self before  God.  God's  thrones  are  approached, 
not  by  steps  up  to  them,  but  by  steps  down  to 
them.  It  is  the  publican  who  beats  his  breast, 
saying,  '*God  be  merciful  to  me  the  sinner," 
that  goes  down  justified  to  his  house.  It  is  when 
sin  abounds,  that  grace  much  more  abounds.  He 
that  humbleth  himself  shall  be  exalted.  "For 
thus  saith  the  high  and  lofty  One  that  inhabiteth 
eternity,  whose  name  is  Holy:  I  dwell  in  the 
high  and  Fioly  place,  with  him  also  tliat  is  of  a 
contrite  and  humble  spirit,  to  revive  the  spirit  of 
the  humble,  and  to  revive  the  heart  of  the  con- 
trite ones"  (Isa.  Ivii.  15). 


103 


Shall  let  go  the  living  bird  into  the  open  field. 

Lev.  xiv.  7  (r.  v.). 

THAT  is  thou,  O  trembling  soul.  Thine  in- 
iquities have  come  between  thee  and  freedom, 
like  the  bars  of  a  cage  to  a  bird  caught  from  its 
native  woods  and  imprisoned.  See  the  quickly- 
palpitating  breast,  beaten  against  the  bars,  pining 
for  the  open  field — is  not  that  an  apt  symbol  of 
thy  deep  yearning  for  deliverance  from  the 
tyranny  and  thrall  of  besetting  sin  ? 

We  are  made  free  from  the  penalty  of  sin 
through  the  blood  of  Him  who  died. — One  of  the 
birds  was  killed  in  an  earthen  vessel  over  running 
water — here  is  symbolized  the  precious  death  of 
thy  Saviour,  in  the  earthen  vessel  of  His  human 
nature,  and  in  connection  with  the  living  power 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  bore  forth  the  tidings 
into  all  the  world.  We  have  been  dipped  into 
the  crimson  tide  and  are  freed — as  the  leper 
was — from  the  taint  of  our  disease.  He  might 
go  freely  among  men,  and  join  the  congregation 
of  worshippers :  and  we  may  mingle  with  the 
saints,  and  enter  the  very  presence-chamber  of 
God. 

We  are  made  free  from  the  power  of  sin 
through  the  grace  of  Him  who  rose. — He  has 
passed  into  the  resurrection  life,  and  we  in  Him. 
When  He  rose  through  all  the  heavens  to  His  na- 
tive home,  we  ascended  too.  We  are  made  free 
from  the  thralldom  of  evil  by  identification  with 
the  risen  Lord;  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  entering 
our  hearts  from  our  exalted  Head,  makes  us  pos- 
sessors of  all  the  privileges  which  are  ours  in  the 
Divine  purpose  (Rom.  viii.  3,  4).  Fly  away, 
happy  soul,  to  thy  nest  in  the  heart  of  God  ! 
Seek  those  things  which  are  above  !  It  is  your 
privilege  to  live  in  the  heavenlies  with  Christ. 
Sursum  Cor  da  ! 

104 


He  that  toucheth  .   .  .  shall  be  unclean. 

Lev.  XV.  7. 

THERE  were  doubtless  great  sanitary  reasons 
for  many  of  these  enactments.  This  book  is  one 
of  the  greatest  sanitary  codes  in  existence.  God 
made  religious  duty  enforce  regulations  essential 
to  the  physical  health  and  well-being  of  His 
people.  But  there  were  deeper  reasons  yet.  The 
whole  of  these  arrangements  were  contrived  to 
teach  profound  lessons  to  us  all  of  the  nature  and 
evil  of  sin,  and  of  the  need  of  being  continually 
cleansed  in  the  precious  blood  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  unclean  soul  spreads  7mc leanness. — What- 
ever the  ceremonially  unclean  touched,  used,  or  sat 
on,  was  polluted.  Even  those  who  came  into  con- 
tact with  him  were  defiled.  How  wary  all  true 
Israelites  must  have  been  of  their  associates,  lest 
they  should  contract  pollution  !  Let  us  adopt 
similar  precautions,  and  not  voluntarily  associate 
with  the  unholy  or  unclean.  And  if  our  business 
calls  us  into  their  daily  company,  let  us  seek 
cleansing  for  ourselves  as  we  return  to  our  homes, 
that  any  adhering  germs  of  evil  may  be  removed. 

The  urgent  demand  for  holiness. — The  ordi- 
nary processes  of  life  are  not  necessarily  clean 
because  they  are  natural.  The  foul  heart  may 
vitiate  the  most  natural  functions.  We  must 
bring  the  thought  of  God  into  the  simplest,  the 
commonest,  and  the  most  secret  acts.  Nothing 
is  outside  His  jurisdiction.  Though  hid  from 
sight,  yet  He  is  ever  near  the  child  of  God.  His 
grace,  and  blood,  and  cleansing,  are  always  req- 
uisite, and  ever  ready.  Amidst  and  after  every 
act,  incident,  and  episode  of  life,  we  should  be 
quiet  before  God,  considering  if  we  have  aught 
to  confess,  and  asking  to  be  ever  kept  from  stain- 
ing our  white  robes. 

105 


Unto  a  solitary  land. 

Lev.  xvi.  22  (R.  v.). 
THIS  chapter  is  full  of  Christ  in  His  most  pre- 
cious death  for  men.  Its  various  aspects  are  set 
forth  under  these  diverse  sacrifices,  as  light  re- 
flected from  the  many  facets  of  a  diamond.  We 
think  now  only  of  the  live  goat  which  was  led 
away  into  the  wilderness.     We  see  in  it : — 

Christ  made  sin. — With  both  hands  Aaron,  in 
symbol,  transferred  all  the  iniquities,  sins,  and 
transgressions  of  the  people  to  the  head  of  the 
goat,  which  became  so  identified  with  them  that 
it  was  accounted  an  unclean  thing ;  and  even  he 
who  led  it  away  must  needs  wash  his  clothes  and 
bathe.  This  is  what  the  apostle  means  when  he 
says  that  Jesus  was  made  sin  for  us.  Our  sins 
met  in  Him ;  were  assumed  by  Him  ;  He  stood 
before  God  as  though,  in  some  mysterious  sense, 
they  were  His  own. 

Christ  bearing  sin  away. — As  the  goat  went 
away,  the  eyes  of  the  people  followed  it,  and 
they  were  taught  to  believe  that  sin  was  no  longer 
reckoned  to  them.  Aaron  put  off  his  linen  gar- 
ments and  arrayed  himself  in  festal  robes,  and 
came  forth  to  bless  the  congregation.  What  re- 
joicing must  have  broken  from  the  crowds  !  So 
Jesus,  in  His  matchless  grace,  has  borne  away 
the  sin  of  the  world  into  a  land  of  forgetfulness. 
"Their  sins  and  iniquities  will  I  remember  no 
more." 

Christ's  loneliness. — He  was  alone  in  His 
mediatorial  work.  None  could  bear  Him  com- 
pany. Loved  ones  might  stand  beside  His  cross, 
or  in  after  ages  suffer,  as  He  did,  deaths  of  mar- 
tyrdom; but  none  could  do  what  He  did  as  the 
sacrifice  for  sin.  Ah,  how  lonely  He  was  !  Even 
the  Father  seemed  to  have  forsaken  Him  !  Be- 
fore the  universe,  in  that  dread  hour,  the  Saviour 
stood  in  awful,  unapproachable  solitude  1 
106 


Tlie  life  of  the  flesh  is  in  the  blood. 

Lev.  xvii,  ji. 

THERE  is  probably  a  deeper  truth  in  these 
words  than  man  has  ever  fathomed.  The  R.  V. 
marg.  translates  "life,"  soul.  Why  that  rever- 
ence for  blood  ;  that  horror  when  it  is  unright- 
eously shed  and  gurgles  forth ;  that  perpetual 
reference  of  Scripture  to  the  blood  of  Christ  ? 
Probably  the  answer  to  such  questions  would  be 
given,  if  we  perfectly  understood  the  affirmation 
of  this  remarkable  verse. 

Wheft  Jesus  gave  His  blood,  He  gave  His  lifey 
the  life  of  His  holy  soul. — We  are  accustomed 
often  to  speak  about  the  blood  of  Christ,  by 
which  we  mean  the  life  of  Jesus,  shed  forth  for 
us  substitutionally  and  sacrificially.  The  sinner 
takes  this  blood,  this  life,  in  his  hands,  and  pre- 
sents it  to  God  as  his  plea.  Does  the  broken 
law  require  satisfaction,  homage,  acknowledg- 
ment? Here  it  is  in  this  priceless,  pure,  and 
sinless  blood,  never  infected  by  pollution,  never 
heated  by  passion.  Let  this  shed  life  atone  for 
thee  !  "  God  be  propitious  (because  of  the  sac- 
rifice on  the  altar)  to  me  the  sinner." 

Five  bleeding  wounds  He  bears, 

Received  on  Calvary; 
They  pour  effectual  prayers, 

They  strongly  plead  for  me  : 
"  Forgive  him,  oh,  forgive,"  they  cry, 
"  Nor  let  that  ransomed  sinner  die." 

When  we  are  bidden  drink  His  blood,  it  is  of  His 
life  that  we  partake. — At  the  table  of  our  Lord 
we  symbolically  drink  of  His  blood  ;  in  doing 
this  we  identify  ourselves  with  His  death,  and 
give  up  our  self-life  to  the  cross.  Yea,  we  do 
more;  we  testify  our  desire  to  receive  into  our 
natures  more  and  more  of  the  soul  and  life  of  our 
Blessed  Lord,  so  that  we  may  dwell  in  Him,  and 
He  in  us. 

107 


Therefore  shall  ye  keep  My  charge. 

Lev.  xviii.  30  (r.  v.). 

LITERAL  obedience  was  God's  perpetual  de- 
mand of  His  chosen  people.  Why  should  we 
claim  to  be  exonerated  from  an  equally  exact 
obedience  to  the  commands  of  Jesus  ?  And  yet 
how  few  of  us  do  exactly  as  He  has  bidden  !  Let 
us  take  some  tests. 

The  Lord^s  Supper  is  a  case  in  point.  In  the 
present  day  there  are  many  who,  from  year's  end 
to  year's  end,  never  go  to  the  Table,  though 
Jesus  said  that  His  disciples  were  to  do  it  in  re- 
membrance of  Him. 

Baptism  is  another.  Christians  shelter  them- 
selves under  the  excuse  that  it  is  not  essential, 
and  therefore  may  be  omitted.  But  what  do 
they  mean  by  essential?  It  is  not  essential  to 
salvation,  because  that  has  been  achieved  by  our 
Lord ;  but  it  may  be  essential  to  show  that  we 
love  Him,  that  we  have  a  genuine  faith,  that  we 
are  ready  to  take  Him  as  King.  Surely  a  soldier 
is  not  freed  from  obeying  the  command  of  his 
officer  because  he  cannot  see  it  to  be  essential ! 

Going  to  law  is  another.  If  there  is  one  thing 
clearer  than  others,  it  is  the  reiterated  charge  of 
the  New  Testament  that  we  should  rather  suffer 
wrong  than  avenge  ourselves.  Yet  how  many 
professing  Christians  will  this  day  issue  a  County 
Court  summons  against  defaulters  ! 

Forgiveness  is  another.  '*  If  ye  forgive  not 
men  their  trespasses,  neither  will  your  Father 
forgive  your  trespasses."  Yet  there  are  hundreds 
of  Christ's  professing  followers  who  are  at  feud 
with  their  relatives  or  fellow  members. 

Let  us  remember  the  imperative  tone  of  these 
words,  and  ask  God  to  work  in  us  to  will  and  to 
do  of  His  good  pleasure. 


108 


I  am  the  Lord  your  God. 

Lev.  xix.  J. 

THIS  is  the  refrain  of  the  entire  chapter; 
count  how  many  times  it  recurs.  Evidently  the 
thought  of  God  should  ring  in  our  lives,  as  a 
perpetual  chime. 

Sometimes  as  an  inspiration  to  duty.  We 
should  seek  to  be  holy  because  He  is  holy. 
**  Imitators  of  God."  Or  as  a  remonstrance 
against  yielding  to  temptation.  Lo,  God  is  in 
this  place ;  His  pure  eye  is  upon  me  :  how  can  I 
do  this  great  wickedness  !  Or  as  an  incentive  to 
liberality.  We  can  afford  to  be  generous  to  the 
poor  and  hireling,  because  we  are  children  of  so 
great  and  rich  a  parent.  Or  as  a  reason  for 
mercy  and  gentle  kindness.  How  can  we  act 
otherwise  than  lovingly,  when  His  love  encom- 
passes us  with  its  persuasive  bands  ? 

Thus  the  perpetual  consciousness  of  God  be- 
comes the  source  of  holy  and  happy  living.  But 
how  may  it  become  ours  ?  We  may  make  many 
resolutions,  only  to  break  them.  We  forget  after 
our  most  definite  purposing.  There  is  no  help 
but  in  the  Holy  Spirit,  whose  office  it  is  to  teach 
us  all  things,  and  bring  all  things  to  our  remem- 
brance. He  is  able  also  to  help  our  infirmity  : 
* '  for  we  know  not  how  to  pray  as  we  ought ;  but 
the  Spirit  Himself  maketh  intercession  for  us 
with  groanings  which  cannot  be  uttered." 

In  the  morning  let  the  thought  of  God's  pres- 
ence with  you  in  your  secret  closet  sink  well  into 
your  heart.  Wait  till  His  presence  is  made  real 
to  you,  and  you  cry,  Lo,  God  is  here.  Then 
entrust  yourself  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  asking  Him 
to  keep  you  in  the  current  of  the  love  and  thought 
of  God.  Reckon  on  Him  to  do  so.  Now  and 
then  in  the  course  of  daily  duty  stop  and  remem- 
ber God.  Thus  you  will  live  in  His  fear  and 
love  all  the  day  long. 

109 


/  have  separated  you  from  the  peoples,  that  ye 
should  be  Mine.  Lev.  xx.  26  (r.  v.). 

''SEPARATE  me  Barnabas  and  Saul,"  said 
the  Holy  Ghost.  And  in  after  days  Paul  spoke 
of  himself  as  being  separated  unto  the  Gospel  of 
God.  It  is  a  mistake  to  make  the  act  of  separa- 
tion our  own  resolve  and  deed.  We  shall  inevi- 
tably drop  back  unless  God  has  come  into  the 
transaction,  and  has  set  us  apart  for  Himself. 
We  must  be  separated /^-i?/^/  sin  and  sinners  unto 
a  holy  God. 

We  are  needed  for  a  specific  purpose. — God 
can  bless  men  only  through  men.  As  once  He 
used  the  Jews  to  be  the  medium  of  communicat- 
ing His  truth  to  men,  so  now  He  is  eager  to  use 
His  Church ;  if  only  she  will  allow  Him  to  de- 
liver her  from  the  taint  of  sin  and  the  world,  and 
separate  her  for  a  peculiar  possession  unto  Him- 
self. Let  us  individually  yield  ourselves  to  the 
blessed  influences  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  He  may 
realize  in  us  the  purpose  for  which  He  has  called 
us. 

We  are  required  to  satisfy  God*s  heart. — He 
needs  love  for  love.  Throughout  the  world  He 
seeks  for  those  who  can  afford  Him  pleasure,  as 
His  enclosed  gardens,  His  sealed  fountains.  His 
peculiar  treasure. 

This  separation  is  effected  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  is  referred  to  in  the  word  "  sealing."  •'  He 
hath  sealed  us  unto  the  day  of  redemption." 

What  an  honor  is  this  !  To  be  for  God  Him- 
self: to  do  His  errands,  to  fulfill  His  behests  and 
give  Him  pleasure  !  Rejoice  greatly  when  God 
says,  ''Thou  art  Mine."  We  also  can  take  up 
His  words,  and  answer  back,  "  Thou  also  art 
mine."  Let  us  be  glad,  if  we  know  that  the  oil 
of  separation  has  come  on  our  heads,  and  let  us 
walk  worthily  of  our  high  calling,  separated  to 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  counting  it  sacrilege  to  be 
used  for  any  unholy  purpose. 
110 


I  the  Lord,  which  Sanctify  you. 

Lev.  xxi.  8,  /j,  2j. 

THIS  chapter  is  full  of  restrictions  and  cautions 
against  anything  that  might  defile  the  priests,  the 
sons  of  Aaron.  The  holiness  of  God  was  set  in 
a  clear  light  by  the  care  that  there  should  be  no 
ceremonial  pollution  or  personal  defect  in  those 
who  ministered  before  His  presence.  What 
Aaron  and  his  sons  were  in  the  ancient  typical 
worship,  that  Jesus  and  His  people  are  in  the 
spiritual  dispensation  which  has  taken  its  place. 
''  Ye  are  an  elect  race,  a  royal  priesthood,  a  holy 
nation,  a  people  for  God's  own  possession." 

How  holy  we  should  be  **in  all  manner  of 
living"!  What  may  be  innocent  and  natural 
for  others  would  be  wrong  and  inconsistent  in  us. 
Even  the  pointing  of  the  beard  after  the  fashion 
of  the  nations  around,  and  for  appearance'  sake, 
was  forbidden  them ;  and  contact  with  death  in 
the  home  of  domestic  mourning.  These,  with 
many  such  like  cautions,  indicate  that  our  spiritual 
separation  for  the  service  of  God  must  enter  into 
the  minutest  details.  The  clothes  we  wear,  the 
books  we  read,  the  amusements  we  engage  in, 
the  details  of  the  home-life — will  all  be  affected 
by  the  thought,  '*  I  have  been  set  apart  for  God  ; 
the  anointing  of  the  Spirit  is  on  me;  I  am  called 
to  offer  Him  the  bread  of  a  holy  life ;  I  may  not 
do  as  others,  who  have  not  realized  the  sacred- 
ness  of  life,  as  I  do;  and  who  may  permit  with- 
out compunction  what  I  forego." 

This  is  a  high  ideal ;  and  it  is  only  practicable 
to  those  who  realize  the  thrice-made  announce- 
ment of  our  text,  that  God  will  sanctify  us :  set- 
ting us  apart  for  Himself — by  the*  precious  blood 
of  Christ,  by  the  anointing  of  the  Spirit,  and  by 
the  separation  of  our  thoughts,  and  aims,  and 
practices. 


lU 


He  shall  not  eat  of  the  holy  things  till  he  be 
clean.  Lev.  xxii.  4. 

THE  holy  things  referred  to  here  are  the  of- 
ferings made  by  Israel  to  Jehovah,  a  part  of 
which  was  presented  to  God  in  fire,  and  the  rest 
partaken  of  by  the  priests  and  their  families. 
None,  however,  might  feed  on  them  whilst  cere- 
monially unclean.  This  suggests  some  useful 
precautious  for  ourselves,  if  we  would  fully  en- 
joy the  privileges  and  blessings  attending  the 
worship  of  the  holy  God. 

We  must  be  clean  before  we  can  enjoy  the  pri- 
vate reading  of  the  Word  of  God. — We  would 
wash  our  hands,  soiled  with  the  dust  and  grime 
of  toil,  before  opening  an  exquisitely  printed 
copy  of  the  Scriptures ;  how  much  more  should 
we  seek  cleansing  at  the  hands  of  Christ  before 
we  feed  on  the  holy  things  of  Scripture  ! 

We  must  be  clean  before  entering  the  House  of 
God. — It  is  a  holy  habit  for  each  intended  wor- 
shipper to  be  quiet  before  leaving  the  house  on 
the  Lord's  day ;  or  to  use  carefully  the  moment 
of  the  bent  head  at  the  commencement  of  the 
public  service,  in  order  that  the  soul  may  be 
made  clean  from  any  contracted  stain,  and  re- 
solve henceforth  to  abstain  from  all  evil. 

We  must  be  clean  before  partaking  of  the 
Lord's  Supper. — There  we  feed  upon  the  bread 
of  God ;  and  as  we  wash  our  hands  before  we 
sit  at  the  table  of  a  friend,  so  should  our  hearts 
be  cleansed  ere  we  partake  of  the  emblems  of  the 
body  and  blood  of  Christ.  Holiness  becomes 
God's  house.  Those  that  ascend  the  hill  of 
the  Lord  must  have  clean  hands  and  a  pure 
heart.  The  reason  why  religious  exercises  do 
not  profit  you,  may  lie  in  your  failure  to  comply 
with  this  demand.  "  He  shall  not  eat  of  the 
holy  things  until  he  be  clean." 
112 


Ye  shall  afflict  your  souls. 

Lev.  xxiii.  27,  29,  ^2. 

WHILST  Aaron  was  making  the  solemn  atone- 
ment for  the  people,  confessing  their  sins  on  the 
victims  and  sending  them  away,  the  camp  was 
pervaded  with  the  atmosphere  of  the  Sabbath 
rest.  No  servile  work  was  done  on  penalty  of 
death.  Probably  for  the  most  part  the  people 
abode  in  their  tents.  No  sound  was  heard  save 
sighs,  and  groans,  and  cries  of  penitence.  The 
people  afflicted  themselves  for  their  sins. 

Sin  is  forgiven  by  God,  but  it  should  not  be 
forgotten  by  us. — We  should  remember  it,  in 
order  to  refresh  our  memory  of  God's  great  grace 
in  putting  it  away ;  in  order  to  deepen  our  sense  of 
gratitude  and  to  promote  our  self-humiliation ;  in 
order  to  make  us  watchful  and  careful  in  our 
daily  walk  and  conversation.  Holding  the  hand 
of  our  Saviour,  we  need  not  dread  to  look  down 
into  the  abyss  from  which  He  has  redeemed  us. 
We  shall  turn  from  it  to  Him  with  tenderer  love 
and  gratitude. 

Repentance  is  once  for  all ;  penitence  is  peren- 
nial.— We  repent  when  we  turn  from  the  king- 
dom of  darkness  to  that  of  God's  dear  Son  ;  it  is 
the  act  of  the  will,  the  utter  reversal  of  the  course 
we  had  been  pursuing.  But  we  are  penitent  after 
we  have  seen  the  face  of  Jesus :  it  is  the  act  of 
the  emotions ;  the  sense  of  Christ's  love  and  of 
our  unworthiness  together  makes  us  weep,  as  the 
forgiven  sinner  did  at  His  feet. 

Pestilence  does  not  purchase  forgiveness,  but  ac- 
compa7iies  and  follows  it. — Could  our  tears  for- 
ever flow,  they  could  not  bring  God's  pardon 
into  our  souls.  That  is  secured  by  the  offering 
of  our  Substitute  on  Calvary.  But  being  for- 
given, we  wash  His  feet  with  our  tears,  we 
break  our  alabaster  boxes  on  His  head,  and  love 
much. 

113 


Before  the  Lord  conthwally. 

Lev.  xxiv.  4-8. 

THE  light  of  the  candlestick  and  the  twelve 
cakes  of  fine  flour  were  to  be  before  the  Lord 
continually,  as  symbols  of  the  twofold  office  His 
people  were  to  sustain,  on  the  one  hand  to  the 
world's  darkness,  on  the  other  to  God  Himself. 

We  must  shine  as  lights  in  the  world. — As  a 
candle  in  the  hand  of  the  housewife,  who  sweeps 
her  house  diligently ;  as  a  lamp  in  the  hand  of 
the  virgin  expecting  the  bridegroom ;  or  as  the 
lighthouse  on  a  rocky  coast.  We  must  dispel 
the  darkness,  and  guide  wanderers  through  the 
murky  night.  Light  is  soft  and  still,  and  is  thus 
a  fitting  emblem  of  the  influence  of  a  holy  life, 
which  burns  steadily  on  before  the  Lord  contin- 
ually, and  is  unafl"ected  by  the  heed  or  comment 
of  man.  If  no  one  seems  the  better  for  our  con- 
sistent testimony,  aim  to  satisfy  the  Lord.  The 
lamps  of  the  pure  candlestick  of  a  holy  life  are 
not  for  man  only,  but  for  Him.  But  they  can 
only  be  maintained  through  the  constant  supply 
of  the  pure  oil  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  ministered  by 
Him  who  walks  amid  the  seven  golden  candle- 
sticks.    "  Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world." 

We  must  be  as  bread  to  God. — In  a  blessed 
sense  we  feed  on  God,  but  God  also  feeds  on  us. 
He  finds  satisfaction  in  beholding  His  people's 
unity  and  love,  in  receiving  their  sacrifices  of 
praise,  and  in  watching  their  growing  conform- 
ity to  His  will.  The  two  rows  of  six  cakes  fore- 
shadow the  unity  and  order  of  the  Church ;  the 
fine  flour,  its  holy,  equable  character ;  the  pure 
frankincense,  the  fragrance  of  Christian  love. 
There  is  a  testimony  in  all  these  to  the  world ; 
but  we  do  not  always  realize  the  satisfaction  af- 
forded to  the  great  God,  who  has  made  such 
costly  sacrifices  on  behalf  of  His  Church. 
114 


His  kinsman  that  is  next  unto  him. 

Lev.  XXV.  2^  (R.  v.). 

IN  the  case  of  Naomi  this  was  Boaz ;  in  our 
case  it  is  Jesus  Christ.  Redemption,  as  described 
in  this  chapter,  had  to  do  with  persons  and 
lands;  and  each  illustrates  Christ's  work  on  be- 
half of  believers  throughout  all  ages. 

He  has  redee^ned  our  Persons. — It  often  hap- 
pened that  a  Hebrew  waxed  poor,  and  was  com- 
pelled to  sell  himself  to  some  wealthy  Gentile 
who  sojourned  in  the  land.  He  who  had  owned 
his  own  patrimony  now  wrought  as  a  bondservant 
for  another.  But  after  he  had  sold  himself  he 
might  be  redeemed  by  his  next  kinsman.  So  we 
had  sold  ourselves  for  nought ;  we  wrought  the 
will  of  the  flesh ;  we  were  enslaved  to  the  fash- 
ions of  the  world  ;  we  obeyed  the  promptings  of 
the  prince  of  the  power  of  the  air.  Alas  for  us  ! 
But  we  have  been  redeemed,  not  with  corrupt- 
ible things,  but  with  the  precious  blood  of 
Christ.  We  have  been  made  free  by  right,  and 
have  only  to  claim  and  act  upon  the  freedom 
with  which  the  risen  Christ  has  made  us  free. 

He  has  redeemed  our  Inheritance. — What  we 
lost  in  the  first  Adam  we  have  more  than  re- 
gained in  the  second.  For  innocence,  we  have 
purity ;  for  external  fellowship  with  God,  His 
indwelling;  for  the  delights  of  an  earthly  para- 
dise, the  fullness  of  God's  blessedness  and  joy. 

He  is  our  7iearest  Kinsma?i. — "My  brother, 
my  sister,"  He  says  of  each  who  will  do  the  will 
of  His  Father.  He  has  made  Himself  one  with 
us  by  taking  on  Himself  our  nature,  and  identi- 
fying Himself  with  our  race.  We  know  that 
Jesus,  our  6^<?>/and  Redeemer,  liveth  ;  and  that 
He  will  come  to  redeem  us  from  the  power  of 
the  grave,  and  receive  us  to  Himself. 
115 


None  shall  make  you  afraid. 

Lev.  xxvi.  6. 
BUT   we   are    afraid,   often  very  greatly   so. 
How  can  we  be  secured  from  the  dread  of  men 
and  things  which  so  easily  besets  us? 

We  must  be  absolutely  right  with  God. — To 
walk  in  God's  statutes,  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, was  the  first  condition  of  Israel's  immu- 
nity from  fear.  When  we  know  that  there  is  no 
cause  of  controversy  between  us  and  God,  we 
feel  able  to  count  confidently  on  His  protection 
and  deliverance.  **  Perfect  love  casteth  out 
fear." 

We  must  count  on  God's  faithfulness, — He 
has  put  us  where  we  are,  and  we  dare  not  think 
He  will  withdraw  from  us,  as  Joab  did  from 
Uriah.  We  are  His  partners,  summoned  to  co- 
operate with  Him :  will  He  allow  us  to  incur  re- 
sponsibilities in  His  name,  and  then  leave  the 
burden  on  our  unassisted  resources  ?  Fear  will 
yield  before  a  clear  sense  of  God's  might ;  but  it 
is  still  more  likely  to  yield  before  a  deep  sense 
of  God's  perfect  faithfulness. 

We  must  rely  on  the  environment  of  angel 
keepers. — When  David,  during  his  flight  before 
Absalom,  slept  in  the  open,  he  believed  that  the 
Angel  of  the  Lord  encamped  around  him.  More 
are  they  which  are  for  us  than  those  that  be 
against  us.  The  mountain  is  full  of  horses  and 
chariots  of  fire.  Lord,  open  our  eyes  that  we 
may  see  ! 

We  mtcst  believe  that  our  enemies  are  less  for- 
midable than  they  seem. — They  surround  us  with 
their  bluster  and  threatenings,  they  come  against 
us  in  embattled  array ;  but  if  we  dare  to  go 
forward  and  do  the  right  thing  in  the  sight  of 
God,  they  will  vanish  like  a  puff  of  smoke. 
'*For,  lo,  the  kings  assembled  themselves.  .  .  . 
They  were  arrayed,  they  were  dismayed,  they 
hasted  away." 

116 


No  devoted  thing  .   .  .  shall  be  sold  or  redeemed. 

Lev.  xxvii.  28. 

THERE  is  a  great  principle  involved  in  these 
words.  When  once  a  person  or  possession  had 
been  solemnly  dedicated  to  God,  it  was  not  per- 
missible to  withdraw  from  the  obligations  which 
had  been  assumed.  Once  given,  the  offering 
was  regarded  as  God's  property,  and  might  not 
be  resumed  by  the  offerer,  or  placed  to  any  in- 
ferior use. 

This  regulation  is  specially  applicable  to  our 
conception  and  practice  of  consecration.  We  are 
Christ's :  by  the  gift  of  the  Father,  by  the  pur- 
chase of  the  blood  of  Christ,  by  the  sealing  of  the 
Spirit ;  but  a  moment  often  comes  in  the  life  of 
the  earnest  believer  when  the  Lord  appears  to 
claim  a  more  earnest  recognition  of  His  rightful 
claim.  Then  thoughtfully  and  earnestly,  spirit, 
soul,  and  body,  are  laid  upon  the  altar,  and  we 
solemnly  declare,  "  I  am  Thine,  O  Lord  !  " 

When  once  this  is  done,  we  must  reckon  that 
God  has  accepted  us,  and  that  we  cannot  repeat 
the  gift.  We  may  perpetually  refer  to  it,  and 
acknowledge  its  abiding  obligation,  and  apply  its 
principle  to  all  those  new  departments  and  func- 
tions which  are  perpetually  increasing  on  us ; 
but  we  can  no  more  repeat  it,  than  could  the 
Israelite  give  God  the  firstling  lamb,  since  it  was 
already  His  (ver.  26). 

If  we  go  back  from  the  attitude  we  have  once 
taken  up,  we  must  confess  our  relapse  with  tears 
and  deep  contrition,  asking  to  be  restored,  wait- 
ing to  be  put  back  again  into  the  old  place  by 
our  merciful  and  compassionate  High  Priest. 
We  cannot  undo  that  past ;  but  we  may  ask  Him 
to  restore  us  to  the  place  we  occupied  before  we 
went  astray.  Oh  that  we  might  never  withdraw 
from  the  altar  of  entire  consecration  ! 
117 


They  declared  their  pedigrees. 

Num.  i.  i8. 

IT  was  not  enough  to  be  a  true-born  Israelite, 
a  man  must  be  able  to  show  his  descent.  The 
genealogical  tables  were  kept  with  the  greatest 
care ;  and  there  was  a  holy  pride  in  being  able 
to  vindicate  the  claim  of  having  the  blood  of  the 
patriarchs  in  the  veins. 

It  is  a  blessed  thing  to  be  sure  that  we  have 
passed  from  death  unto  life,  and  are  the  children 
of  God  by  faith  in  Christ  Jesus.  True,  our  eter- 
nal destiny  does  not  hinge  on  it.  Many  will 
doubtless  be  saved  at  last,  who  have  spent  their 
lives  between  hope  and  fear.  But  it  is  very 
needful  for  our  comfort  and  growth  in  grace  to 
be  able  to  declare  our  pedigree,  and  to  know 
that  we  have  been  translated  into  the  Kingdom 
of  God's  dear  Son. 

The  Gospel  of  John  was  written  that  we  might 
believe ;  the  Epistle  that  we  might  k7iow.  But 
many  seek  this  knowledge  in  the  wrong  way,  and 
are  exposed  to  endless  questionings.  They  try 
to  discover  the  date,  place,  or  experience  in  the 
past,  when  they  were  incorporated  into  the  Di- 
vine family ;  and  because  they  cannot  point  to 
these,  they  imagine  that  they  are  still  outside. 
Now  for  every  one  that  has  had  a  definite  ex- 
perience of  the  new  birth,  there  are  perhaps  a 
score  who  entered  the  Divine  family  almost  as  a 
sailor  passes  the  line  of  the  Equator.  Yet  it  is 
possible  for  you  to  knoAv  that  you  are  born 
again,  though  you  may  not  be  able  to  tell  your 
birthday. 

If  you  are  trusting  Jesus,  if  the  Spirit  witnesses 
with  your  spirit  that  God  is  your  Father,  if  you 
are  full  of  a  holy  fear  of  grieving  Him,  if  you 
are  becoming  like  Him,  if  you  love  the  brethren 
— you  may  certainly  declare  yourself  His  child. 


118 


The  Children  of  Israel  shall  pitch  every  vian  by 
his  own  standard.  Num.  U.  2-34  (r.  v.). 

OUR  God  is  a  God  of  order;  and  it  was 
needful  for  the  order  of  the  camp,  whether  at 
rest  or  on  the  march,  that  each  man  should  know 
his  place,  and  keep  to  it.  But  though  there  were 
different  standards  and  positions,  there  was  one 
centre,  the  ark,  and  one  host  of  redeemed  men. 

Each  believer  has  an  appointed  place  in  the 
great  army  of  God.  It  is  indicated  by  the  voice 
of  God,  and  by  the  circumstances  of  our  life; 
and  it  should  be  jealously  retained.  Repeatedly 
the  Apostle  bade  his  converts  abide  in  the  call- 
ing wherein  they  were  called.  Yours  may  be 
toward  the  bleak  north  of  difficulty,  or  the  warm 
south  of  privilege — in  the  home,  the  country 
parish,  or  the  difficult  foreign  post.  But,  on  the 
whole,  you  should  stay  where  you  are;  unless 
the  Captain  of  our  salvation  moves  you  by  some 
unmistakable  indication  of  His  will.  The  apos- 
tle Paul  ever  lived  in  such  dependence  on  the 
Holy  Spirit  for  guidance,  and  for  the  unfolding 
of  the  Divine  purpose,  that  from  some  apparently 
trivial  circumstance  he  would  "gather"  the 
movements  of  the  pillar  of  cloud  by  day,  and  of 
fire  by  night.  And  interval  there  was  none  be- 
tween his  apprehension  of  the  Divine  purpose 
and  his  endeavor  to  strike  his  tent  and  follow 
wherever  it  might  lead  (Acts  xvi.  6,  7). 

The  main  point  with  us  all  is  to  face  the  ark, 
to  which  the  doors  of  all  the  tents  looked,  so  that 
we  may  ever  catch  the  first  symptom  of  the 
movement  of  the  cloud.  On  the  whole,  we  do 
best  to  pitch  and  fight  under  our  own  standards. 
There  is  a  closer  bond  of  brotherhood  possible 
between  those  who  think  alike.  But  whilst  we 
are  positive  in  what  we  affirm  for  ourselves,  let  us 
not  deny  that  other  standards  represent  necessary 
aspects  of  the  common  faith. 

119 


Take  the  Levites  instead. 

Num.  Hi.  4^. 

EACH  firstborn  son  was  God's.  On  the  day 
of  the  Exodus,  as  the  firstborn  of  Egypt  were 
stricken,  so  the  firstborn  of  Israel  were  hallowed. 
God  claimed  the  right  of  their  service  in  His 
Temple,  to  serve  there  as  priests  and  attendants. 
But  instead  of  them,  He  accepted  the  whole  tribe 
of  Levi ;  and  for  the  overplus  of  firstborn  sons 
above  the  number  of  Levites,  He  accepted  re- 
demption money,  which  went  to  maintain  Aaron 
and  his  family.  Thus,  each  firstborn  son  was  rep- 
resented, either  by  a  substitute,  or  by  a  money 
payment. 

An  Appeal  to  Parents. — Would  it  not  be  a 
blessed  custom  if,  in  all  our  churches,  the  first- 
born child  was,  in  a  special  sense,  regarded  as 
God's,  and  trained  for  some  branch  of  His  holy 
service  in  the  home  and  foreign  field  ?  What  a 
blessing  would  rest  on  our  homes  if  this  were  the 
custom  I  It  would  lead  to  very  definite  prayer, 
that  the  young  soul  might  be  truly  converted  and 
led  to  realize  the  parents'  ideal. 

An  Appeal  to  firstborn  Children. — Either  go 
yourself  into  the  service  of  God,  at  home  or 
abroad,  or  send  a  substitute.  Consider  yourself 
under  obligation  to  do  some  special  work  for 
Christ  and  His  Church.  And  if  you  cannot,  earn 
money  to  support  your  representative.  This  is 
laying  up  treasure  in  heaven. 

An  Appeal  to  Families. — Why  should  not  each 
Christian  family  become  a  missionary  society, 
sending  one  of  its  members  forth  in  the  name  of 
the  rest,  who  should  bind  themselves  solemnly  to 
*'  hold  the  ropes  "  ;  and  thus  obey  the  Master's 
parting  commission,  "  Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature  "  ? 
120 


Every  one  to  his  service  and  to  his  burden. 

Num.  iv.  ig. 

IS  this  what  the  Apostle  referred  to  when  he 
said  that  every  man  should  bear  his  own  burden  ? 
There  are  burdens  which  we  cannot  share  or  de- 
pute, to  bear  which  we  need  special  grace,  and 
must  continually  seek  the  aid  of  the  Divine 
Spirit. 

The  biirde7i  of  our  own  existence. — Each  of  us 
must  give  an  account  of  himself  to  God.  We 
were  created  for  a  specific  purpose ;  and  our  fail- 
ure to  fulfill  it  cannot  be  settled  on  another.  God 
will  require  each  man's  soul  of  himself.  "  Every 
one  of  us  shall  give  account  of  himself  to  God  " 
(Rom.  xiv.  12).  You  have  a  charge  to  keep,  a 
soul  to  save,  and  a  God  to  glorify. 

The  burden  of  our  life-work. — What  makest 
thou  in  the  world  ?  The  Maker  of  all  waits  for 
thee  to  enter  His  great  workshop  and  become  His 
apprentice  and  co-worker.  To  be  an  idler,  or  an 
absentee,  will  land  thee  m  inevitable  disgrace. 
The  appointed  place  cannot  be  left  vacant,  and 
thy  tools  untouched,  save  at  thy  grave  peril. 

The  burden  of  the  souls  of  others. — We  are 
our  brothers'  keepers,  liable  at  any  moment  to  be 
called  upon  to  give  an  account  of  how  they  fare ; 
and  we  cannot  rid  ourselves  of  this  responsibility 
by  annual  donations  or  subscriptions  to  charitable 
or  missionary  institutions. 

The  burden  of  daily  intercession. — Jesus  bears 
the  burdens  of  His  people  as  He  intercedes  for 
them  in  heaven ;  and  there  is  a  sense  in  which 
we  are  called  to  bear  up  His  hands  in  this  holy 
service.  We  must  consider  the  work  of  daily 
prayer  for  His  Church,  for  sufferers,  and  for  the 
world,  as  part  of  the  burden  of  the  Lord,  allotted 
to  us  because  we  are  members  of  His  body. 
121 


Without  the  camp,  .   .  .  in  the  midst  whereof  I 
dwell.  Num.  V.  J. 

WHAT  a  sublime  conception  ! — God  dwelt 
with  His  people.  The  Tabernacle  was  His  tent 
amongst  theirs;  the  cloudy  pillar  was  His  en- 
sign. To  attack  them  was  to  come  into  collision 
with  Him.  All  the  expense  and  anxiety  of  the 
march  rested  on  His  shoulders,  as  the  care  of  a 
family  of  young  children  on  a  father.  How 
needful  it  was  that  nothing  should  be  permitted 
which  could  grieve  or  offend  Him  ! 

What  the  camp  of  Israel  was  in  those  long-ago 
days,  the  Church  is  now.  It  is  the  host  of  the 
redeemed,  the  representative  of  God,  the  pil- 
grimage of  the  saints.  Amongst  His  people  God 
still  walks,  and  dwells,  and  tabernacles.  Their 
griefs,  conflicts,  and  experiences,  are  shared  by 
their  ever-present  Almighty  Friend. 

The  presence  of  God  in  the  Church  is  by  the 
Holy  Spirit.  "  Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the 
temple  of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  dwell- 
eth  in  you?"  (i  Cor.  iii.  i6).  He  is  with  her 
and  in  her  as  the  Body  of  which  the  risen  Lord 
is  Head.  When  the  one  Advocate  went  up,  the 
other  came  down ;  when  the  Second  Person  in 
the  Holy  Trinity  ascended  to  His  throne,  the 
Third  Person  came  down  to  perpetuate  His  work 
in  the  world,  through  the  Church.  "He  dwell- 
eth  with  you,  and  shall  be  in  you." 

How  careful  should  we  be  in  the  ordering  of 
our  church-life,  as  well  as  of  our  individual  lives, 
so  that  there  may  be  nothing  to  offend  Him  ! 
*'What  will  the  Holy  Spirit  think  of  this?" 
should  be  always  our  first  inquiry.  We  must 
walk  in  the  paracletisin  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  if  we 
would  be  edified  and  multiplied,  as  were  the 
cliurches  throughout  Judaea,  and  Galilee,  and 
Samaria  (Acts  ix.  31). 


122 


The  former  days  shall  be  void. 

Num.  vi.  12  (R.  v.). 

HOW  solemn  is  the  suggestion  of  these  words  ! 
If  the  separation  of  the  Nazarite  were  broken  in 
upon  by  his  sudden  contact  with  death,  he  might 
start  afresh  ;  but  all  the  days  that  preceded  that 
untoward  event  would  go  for  nothing — they 
would  not  be  counted. 

How  many  days  in  our  life  have  been  made 
void  !  Days  in  which  we  have  learned  no  new 
lesson  of  God ;  have  had  no  access  into  His  pres- 
ence ;  have  done  no  kind  and  helpful  act ;  have 
spoken  no  loving,  tender  word.  It  is  all-impor- 
tant that  even  our  days  of  rest  from  active  engage- 
ments should  be  days  of  learning  deeper  lessons, 
of  vision,  and  of  reception  from  the  fullness  of 
God. 

Each  day  comes  to  us  fresh  from  God,  like  soft 
metal,  waiting  to  be  stamped  with  our  inscrip- 
tion ;  or  like  a  piece  of  yielding  clay,  to  be 
moulded  into  some  shape  of  beauty  or  use. 
Each  morning  the  slate  is  brought  for  us  to  write 
on ;  the  canvas  on  which  we  may  paint.  But 
too  often  we  miss  our  opportunity,  and  a  blurred, 
marred,  confused  result  is  all  we  have  to  show. 

If  you  would  avoid  this,  let  God  plan  each 
day;  follow  the  guidance  of  His  Spirit ;  do  all 
you  touch  with  your  might  and  for  His  glory ; 
put  away  all  known  sin,  and  be  separate  from 
evil ;  in  everything  learn  to  submit  to  His  deal- 
ings, and  to  commit  yourself  to  His  faithful  keep- 
ing. Then  each  day  will  have  something  to 
keep  in  charge,  and  resemble  a  chalice  filled  to 
its  brim  with  holy  service.  We  must  ever  re- 
member that  "every  man's  work  shall  be  made 
manifest :  for  the  Day  shall  declare  it,  because 
it  shall  be  revealed  by  fire;  and  the  fire  shall 
try  every  man's  work  of  what  sort  it  is  "  (i  Cor. 
iii.  13). 

123 


Moses  .   .   .  heard  the  voice  speaking  unto  him, 
.  .   .  and  He  spake  unto  him.  Num.  vU.  8g. 

THE  meaning  of  this  verse  seems  to  be  that 
when  Moses  went  into  the  Holy  Place  to  speak 
with  God  he  became  conscious  of  the  Divine 
voice,  that  opened  out  to  him  the  thoughts  and 
purposes  of  God  in  such  a  way  that  he  was  caught 
up  on  the  current  and  borne  back  to  God. 

This  is  the  true  conception  of  prayer.  We 
often  go  to  God  with  our  thoughts  and  desires, 
and  having  uttered  them  we  go  our  way.  We  do 
not  wait  long  enough  to  see  the  cherubim  and 
the  light  of  the  Shekinah,  or  hear  the  Divine 
voice.  Thus  our  prayers  fail  of  their  answer. 
We  do  not  ask  what  is  according  to  the  will  and 
mind  of  our  Heavenly  Father ;  and  the  heavens 
seem  like  brass.  We  have  not  because  we  ask 
not,  or  because  we  ask  amiss.  We  must  ask  in 
faith,  nothing  wavering. 

The  true  conception  of  prayer  is  that  it  orig- 
inates in  the  purpose  of  God,  and  passes  from 
the  Father  to  the  Son,  who  is  also  the  Head  and 
Representative  of  His  people.  From  Jesus  it  is 
brought  into  our  hearts  by  the  blessed  Spirit, 
who  unites  the  Head  with  each  member  of  the 
mystical  body  ;  and  from  the  saints  it  returns  to 
the  source  from  which  it  came. 

If,  then,  we  would  pray  aright,  we  should  wait 
before  God  until  the  Holy  Spirit  suggests  what 
we  should  pray  for,  and  indeed  begins  to  plead 
within  us  for  the  saints.  Silence,  solitude,  wait- 
ing before  God ;  the  return  to  God  of  His  own 
thoughts ;  the  being  burdened  with  the  weighty 
matters  that  lie  heavily  on  the  heart  of  Jesus — 
such  is  the  noblest  kind  of  prayer.  It  is  those 
who  wait  upon  the  Lord  that  renew  their 
strength,  that  mount  up  with  wings  as  eagles; 
that  run  and  are  not  weary,  that  walk  and  are 
not  faint  (Isa.  xl.  31). 

124 


Aaron  offered  them  for  a  wave  offering. 

N'um.  via.  iiy  ijy  /J,  21  (R.  v.). 

THIS  is  interesting  and  instructive.  Tiie 
Levites  were  substituted  for  the  firstborn  of  Israel. 
They  were  first  separated  from  the  rest  of  the  peo- 
ple, cleansed,  sprinkled,  shaven,  and  finally  pre- 
sented to  the  Lord  by  the  act  of  Aaron,  who, 
according  to  the  Hebrew  word,  waved  them  before 
the  Lord.  This  waving  must,  of  course,  have  been 
done  in  symbol  and  figure.  But  it  was  not 
enough  that  they  were  thus  waved,  they  had 
thereafter  to  go  in  to  do  their  service.  In  other 
words,  they  were  called  to  realize  actually  that 
which  was  their  position  and  standing  in  the 
sight  of  God. 

There  is  a  precise  analogy  in  all  this  to  the 
work  which  the  Lord  Jesus  has  accomplished  for 
us  all.  He  said,  *'  I  consecrate  Myself,  that  they 
also  may  be  consecrated."  When  He  offered 
Himself  without  spot  to  God,  to  do  His  Father's 
will,  though  it  cost  Him  the  agony  of  Calvary, 
the  heavenly  Aaron  waved  us  before  God  to  be 
His.  We  were  separated  by  His  most  precious 
death,  that  we  should  be  wholly  for  God.  But 
what  is  ours  in  the  great  deed  of  Christ,  must 
become  ours  by  our  own  choice  and  deed.  We 
must  go  in  to  do  the  service  for  which  we  have 
been  chosen  and  set  apart  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 

This  can  only  be  through  the  grace  of  the 
blessed  Spirit.  Ask  Him  to  realize  in  you  the 
purposes  of  God  :  trust  Him  to  keep  you  trust- 
ing :  each  morning  say,  "  Holy  Spirit,  I  rely  on 
Thee  to  keep  me  in  the  current  of  the  Divine 
purpose."  Then  dare  to  go  forth  to  do  the  day's 
duties,  believing  that  you  may  be  always  engaged 
in  God's  holy  service  ;  that  in  everything,  whether 
you  eat,  or  drink,  or  whatsoever  you  do,  you  do 
all  to  the  glory  of  God. 


125 


When  the  cloud  tarried. 

Num.  ix.  ig. 

THIS  was  the  supreme  test  of  obedience.  It 
was  comparatively  easy  to  strike  the  tents,  when 
the  fleecy  folds  of  the  cloud  were  slowly  gathered 
from  off  the  Tabernacle,  and  it  floated  ma- 
jestically before  the  host.  Change  is  always  de- 
lightful ;  and  there  was  excitement  and  interest 
in  the  route,  the  scenery,  the  locality  of  the  next 
halting-place.  But,  ah,  the  tarrying !  Some- 
times the  cloud  tarried  for  two  days,  or  a  month, 
or  a  year;  then,  however  uninviting  and  sultry 
the  location,  however  trying  to  flesh  and  blood, 
however  irksome  to  the  impatient  disposition, 
however  perilously  exposed  to  danger — there  was 
no  option  but  to  remain  encamped.  The 
Psalmist  says,  *' I  waited  patiently  for  the  Lord, 
and  He  inclined  unto  me,  and  heard  my  cry." 
And  what  He  has  done  for  the  Old  Testament 
saints  He  will  do  for  believers  throughout  all 
ages. 

Still,  God  often  keeps  us  waiting.  Face  to 
face  with  threatening  foes,  in  the  midst  of  alarms, 
encircled  by  perils,  beneath  the  impending  rock. 
May  we  not  go?  Is  it  not  time  to  strike  our 
tent  ?  Have  we  not  suffered  to  the  point  of  utter 
collapse  ?  May  we  not  exchange  the  glare  and 
heat  for  green  pastures  and  still  waters  ?  There 
is  no  answer.  The  cloud  tarries,  and  we  must 
remain,  though  sure  of  manna,  rock-water, 
shelter,  and  defence.  God  never  keeps  us  at  a 
post  without  assuring  us  of  His  presence,  and 
sending  us  daily  supplies. 

Wait,  domestic  servant,  before  you  give  notice  ! 
Young  man,  do  not  be  in  a  hurry  to  make  a 
change  !  Minister,  remain  at  your  post  !  Until 
the  cloud  clearly  moves,  you  must  tarry  (8th 
verse).  Wait,  then,  thy  Lord's  good  pleasure  ! 
He  will  be  in  plenty  of  time  1 

126 


What  good  S0CVC7'  the  Lord  shall  do  unto  usy  the 
same  shall  we  do  i/7ito  thee.      Num.  x.  32  (r.  v.). 

HOBAB  was  a  Gentile  by  race,  but  he  was  in- 
vited to  fellowship  with  Israel  in  all  the  blessings 
of  their  covenant.  Moses  reckoned  that  Israel 
was  called  to  a  stewardship  of  the  manifold  bless- 
ings of  their  lot.  Whatever  good  was  entrusted 
to  them,  they  were  called  upon  to  distribute  and 
pass  on.  As  the  Lord  did  them  good,  they 
would  do  Hobab  good ;  making  him,  Gentile 
though  he  were,  a  fellow  heir,  a  fellow  member 
of  the  body,  and  a  fellow  partaker  of  the  promises 
of  God. 

We  get  by  giving. — If  the  river-bed  were  to 
hoard  up  its  waters,  they  would  become  stagnant 
and  noisome.  It  is  only  in  parting  with  them 
that  it  receives  constant  supplies  from  the  crystal 
fountain-head.  So,  if  we  keep  God's  good  things 
to  ourselves,  we  make  it  impossible  to  receive 
more.  You  cannot  put  more  water  into  a  full 
glass.  But  as  we  part  with  them  we  get  more 
and  better.  Distribute  five  loaves,  and  you  have 
twelve  baskets  of  fragments. 

We  learn  by  teaching. — To  stay  in  a  class  till 
you  shall  feel  fully  educated,  is  to  miss  one  prime 
means  of  education.  There  is  no  way  of  discov- 
ering what  we  do  not  know,  and  getting  grounded 
in  what  we  do,  like  that  of  imparting  what  we 
have  learned  to  others.  Would  you  learn,  teach. 
Would  you  grow  in  grace,  tell  of  the  grace  which 
has  saved  you. 

We  keep  what  we  give  away. — Hoard  your 
money,  and  you  lose  it.  Give  it  away,  and  it  is 
caught  in  bags  that  wax  not  old,  and  stored  be- 
yond the  reach  of  moth  or  thief.  '*  There  is  that 
scattereth,  and  increaseth  yet  more;  and  there  is 
that  withholdeth  more  than  is  meet,  butittendeth 
only  to  want  "  (Prov.  xi.  24).  This  is  folly  to 
the  worldling,  but  sober  fact  to  the  child  of  the 
King. 

127 


Would   God  that  all  the   Lord^s  people  were 
prophets  /  Num.  xi.  ^9  (r.  v.). 

THIS  one  saying  proves  the  incomparable 
greatness  of  Moses'  character.  Little  souls  are 
monopolists.  They  like  to  be  good  and  gifted, 
because  it  gives  them  a  kind  of  superiority  to 
others;  but  they  dislike  to  see  a  levelling-up 
process  at  work  by  which  the  Eldads  and  Medads 
are  lifted  to  stand  by  their  side. 

This  was  the  mistake  of  Joshua. — When  he 
heard  that  Eldad  and  Medad  prophesied  in  the 
camp,  he  said,  "  My  lord  Moses,  forbid  them  !  " 
But  he  was  immature,  a  saint  in  the  process  of 
manufacture,  and  smitten  with  jealousy,  for  the 
sake  of  his  master  and  friend. 

This  was  the  complaint  ofjohn^s  disciples,  when 
they  saw  the  crowds  ebbing  away  from  their  great 
teacher. 

This  was  the  quarrel  of  the  Pharisees,  that 
Jesus  made  religion  so  cheap  and  accessible  to  all, 
that  even  the  publicans  and  sinners  received  His 
priceless  wares. 

But  when  a  man  is  really  great  and  good,  he 
longs  that  all  should  be  as  he  is,  and  better  ;  he 
takes  a  deep  delight  in  the  spread  of  vital  godli- 
ness ;  he  is  glad  when  others  are  endowed  with 
greater  gifts  than  himself,  that  they  may  make 
the  Gospel  better  known  than  he  could  ever  do ; 
he  is  content  to  decrease,  if  Christ  may  only  in- 
crease ;  he  is  willing  that  affliction  should  be 
added  to  his  bonds,  if  only  Christ  may  be  magni- 
fied ;  he  prays  that  the  Lord  would  put  Plis  Spirit 
on  all  His  people.  This  is  very  unnatural  to  any 
of  us ;  but  God,  the  Holy  Spirit,  waits  to  baptize 
us  even  into  this,  and  to  make  the  glory  of  God 
the  object  of  our  life.  Make  haste,  O  blessed 
Paraclete,  and  do  this  for  me  ! 


128 


My  servant  Moses  is  faithful :  .  .  .  with  him 
will  I  speak  mouth  to  mouth.  Num.  xU.  8. 

THE  meekest  of  the  men  was  vindicated  by- 
God  Himself.  He  held  his  peace,  but  his  Al- 
mighty Friend  spoke  up  for  him.  It  is  thus  that 
the  meek  inherit  the  earth  and  rejoice  themselves 
in  the  abundance  of  peace.  Oh,  keep  still,  ye 
afflicted  and  tormented  souls,  God  will  not  let 
you  be  trodden  underfoot,  if  only  you  commit 
your  cause  to  Him,  and  are  faithful  in  all  that 
He  has  committed  to  you.  "That  good  thing 
keep  which  was  committed  to  you  :  He  is  able  to 
keep  that  which  I  have  committed  unto  Him." 

Notice  to  what  faithfulness  leads  !  The  vision 
of  God  is  not  given  to  great  intellectual  ability 
or  mental  gift ;  but  to  those  who  as  servants  are 
faithful  in  the  administration  of  God's  House- 
liold,  and  the  performance  of  such  duties  as  are 
entrusted  to  them  by  the  Great  Householder. 
Such  are  they  that  enjoy  the  face-to-face  fellow- 
ship, and  the  mouth-to-mouth  speech. 

These  words  about  Moses  are  quoted  in  Heb. 
iii.,  as  though  it  was  pleasant  to  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  commemorate  in  all  ages  the  faithfulness  of 
His  servants :  and  there  is  this  further  thought 
added,  that  the  Household  is  one,  and  that  all 
dispensations  are  included  in  its  precincts. 
**  Whose  house  are  we."  It  is  inspiring  to 
know  that  we  are  in  the  same  house  with 
Moses,  and  may  have  the  same  blessing.  Are 
God's  dealings  with  you  in  dark  speeches,  in 
mysterious  and  perplexing  enigmas?  Be  patient 
and  faithful  in  well-doing:  He  is  but  testing 
you,  and  soon  He  will  say,  I  have  called  you  not 
servants,  but  friends ;  for  the  servant  knoweth 
not  what  his  Lord  doeth  :  but  all  things  I  have 
heard  of  the  Father  I  have  made  known  unto 
you. 


129 


We  were  in  our  own  sight  as  grasshoppers,  and 
so  we  were  in  their  sight.  A^um.  xiU.  33. 

THERE  is  a  good  deal  of  talk  in  this  chapter 
about  giants  and  fenced  cities.  But  the  way  of 
speaking  about  them  was  very  different  on  the 
part  of  the  ten,  and  on  that  of  the  two.  The  ten 
said  :  "  The  Amalekites  dwell  in  the  land  of  the 
south :  and  the  Hittites,  and  the  Jebusites,  and 
the  Amorites,  dwell  in  the  mountains :  and  the 
Canaanites  dwell  by  the  sea,  and  by  the  coast  of 
Jordan."  But  the  two  said  :  "  Let  us  go  up  at 
once  and  possess  it ;  for  we  are  well  able  to  over- 
come it."  They  saw  the  same  spectacles  in  their 
survey  of  the  land  ;  but  the  result  in  the  one  case 
was  panic y  in  the  other  confidence  and  peace. 
What  made  the  difference  ?  It  lay  in  this,  that 
the  ten  spies  compared  themselves  with  the  giants, 
whilst  the  two  compared  the  giants  with  God. 
"  The  Lord  is  with  us,  fear  them  not." 

Faith  looks  away  from  the  greatness  of  her 
difficulty  to  the  greatness  of  her  God.  "If  con- 
sidered in  itself,  it  is  clear  that  this  difficulty  is 
too  great  for  me  to  combat ;  but  it  is  nothing  to 
my  God.  The  wall  is  too  solid  and  high  fcr 
me;  but  before  God's  touch  it  will  fall  down  like 
cardboard.  These  ropes  are  stout;  but  before 
God  they  are  only  as  tow  before  flame.  I  will 
not  consider  the  man  that  shall  die,  and  the  son 
of  man  that  shall  be  made  as  grass ;  but  will  look 
away  resolutely  to  my  Maker,  who  made  heaven 
and  earth,  and  who  can  still  the  roaring  of  the 
sea." 

Do  you  want  a  fearless  faith,  be  careful  not  to 
measure  the  comparative  forces  of  yourself  and 
others ;  but  remember  that  God  is  working  for 
you  to  will  and  do  of  His  own  good  pleasure. 
If  He  is  for  you,  who  can  be  against  you? 
When  compared  with  Primrose  Hill,  Snowdon  is 
high ;  but  where  is  it  when  compared  with  the 
Himalayas  ? 

130 


The  Egyptians  shall  hear  it. 

Num.  xiv.  ij. 

WHAT  a  noble  concern  for  the  credit  of  God  ! 
Here  was  a  great  opportunity  for  Moses.  God 
was  testing  him  by  the  proposal,  that,  the  entire 
nation  of  Israel  being  cut  off  as  a  judgment  for 
their  repeated  shortcomings  and  transgressions, 
Moses  should  become  the  slip  or  stock  of  the 
Hebrew  race:  **I  will  disinherit  them,  and 
make  of  thee  a  nation  greater  and  mightier  than 
they."  This  was  not  the  settled  purpose  of 
God ;  but  a  suggestion  to  test  His  servant,  who 
would  not  entertain  it  for  a  moment.  All 
thought  of  the  honor  to  be  done  to  himself  was 
submerged  in  his  great  eagerness  for  the  Divine 
credit.  "The  Egyptians  shall  hear  it:  the 
nations  which  have  heard  the  fame  of  Thee  will 
speak,  saying,  Because  the  Lord  was  not  able. ..." 

The  Egyptians  are  always  around  us,  watching 
and  listening.  They  can  only  judge  of  God  by 
our  behavior  and  the  course  of  our  experience : 
and  are  only  too  ready  to  catch  up  anything 
which  they  may  interpret  to  the  discrediting  of 
the  Eternal.  How  careful  we  should  be  in  all 
our  life  and  conversation  so  that  the  ungodly 
may  have,  not  lower,  but  loftier  conceptions  of 
our  God. 

When  tempted  to  anything  which  is  not  per- 
fectly noble  and  honorable ;  when  inclined  to 
murmur  and  complain  of  God's  dealings  with 
you  ;  when  an  opportunity  comes,  as  it  did  to 
Moses,  to  make  gain  at  the  expense  of  others ; 
then  remember  the  name  of  God,  and  the  ur- 
gency of  need  that  exists,  to  maintain  it  unsullied 
and  untarnished.  We  should  be  restrained  by  a 
double  fear :  first,  lest  we  should  grieve  God ; 
second,  lest  the  Egyptians  should  have  a  handle 
against  Him,  and  should  be  prejudiced  against 
religion. 

131 


A  cord  of  blue. 

Num.  XV.  ^B  (R.  v.). 

THROUGHOUT  their  generations  the  Israel- 
ites were  bidden  to  wear  it.  It  is  the  symbol  of 
depth,  of  love,  of  Heaven.  The  azure  sky,  the 
glacier- rift,  the  deep  lake,  the  far  horizon,  the 
eye  of  the  hopeful,  buoyant,  tender  nature — all 
tell  the  same  story  of  deep  and  constant  love, 
which  mirrors  below  God's  heaven  of  love  above. 
Therefore  to  wear  this  cord  of  blue  was  to  be 
kept  in  mind  of  the  eternal  and  unseen.  No 
outward  symbol  is  needed  by  us.  The  very  best, 
after  awhile,  becomes  tame  and  commonplace. 
We  get  so  accustomed  to  it  that  it  ceases  to  stir 
our  thoughts.  But  if  we  will  intrust  ourselves  to 
the  Holy  Spirit,  He  will  teach  us  all  things,  and 
keep  us  always  in  mind.  He  is  the  blessed  Re- 
membrancer, whose  mission  is  to  bring  Christ  to 
our  thought  and  keep  Him  there,  the  prominent 
object  of  our  soul's  vision. 

The  object  of  this  cord  of  blue  was  to  restrain 
the  people  from  going  about  "after  their  own 
heart  and  their  own  eyes."  We  need  to  be  kept 
from  the  same,  that  we  may  walk  not  after  the 
flesh,  but  after  the  Spirit.  In  our  resolutions,  our 
energies,  our  acts  of  consecration,  our  Christian 
activities,  we  are  all  too  apt  to  go  at  the  dictates 
of  our  heart  and  eyes.  May  God  forgive  us ! 
It  has  been  the  source  of  our  perpetual  failure 
and  defeat.  There  is  a  more  excellent  way. 
Let  us  ask  the  Holy  Spirit  to  keep  the  blue  cord 
of  the  Christ-memory  ever  before  our  gaze,  that 
we  may  become  utterly  absorbed  in  His  beauty 
and  glory,  in  doing  His  willp  and  in  executing  His 
commands.  Let  us  seek  to  be  bound  to  our 
Master,  who  is  Love,  by  that  same  cord,  that  we 
may  never  for  a  moment  forget  the  demands  of 
the  unseen  and  eternal. 


132 


The  Lord  will  show  who  is  holy  ;  and  will  cause 
him  to  come  near  u7ito  Him.  Niim.  xvi.  j. 

IT  was  on  these  words  that  the  Psalmist 
founded  his  exclamation,  "Blessed  is  the  man 
whom  Thou  choosest,  and  causest  to  approach 
unto  Thee."  This  is  what  we  all  need.  We 
often  endeavor  to  approach  unto  God,  but  meet 
with  many  disappointments.  Thomas  Welsh 
said,  on  one  occasion,  that  he  had  been  wrestling 
to  obtain  access  from  six  in  the  morning  until 
nine  I  There  is  something  better.  If  you  are 
His,  you  may  humbly  count  on  God  to  cause  you 
to  come  near;  believing  His  promise:  *'Draw 
nigh  to  God,  and  God  will  draw  nigh  to  you." 

In  your  morning  prayer,  or  at  any  other  time 
which  you  set  apart  for  devotion,  let  this  be  the 
cry  of  your  soul :  "  My  God,  cause  me  to  come 
near."  When  for  long  you  have  been  dwelling 
afar  off,  and  the  distance  threatens  to  become 
chronic  or  permanent,  let  this  again  be  your 
petition:  "Cause  me  to  come  near."  And 
throughout  the  rush  of  daily  life,  let  your  depend- 
ence be  on  Him  who  alone  can  cause  you  to 
come  near  so  that  you  may  dwell  in  His  courts. 

But  God  cannot  do  this  unless  the  soul  is  ut- 
terly surrendered  to  be  His ;  for  "  if  we  say  we 
have  fellowship  with  Him,  and  walk  in  darkness, 
we  lie,  and  do  not  the  truth."  We  must  be  un- 
anchored  and  unbeached  if  the  tide  is  to  bear  us 
on  its  bosom.  We  must  be  free  from  the  touch 
of  other  hands  if  we  are  to  respond  to  His.  We 
must  sit  loosely  by  the  things  of  the  earth  to  feel 
the  drawing  of  heaven.  This  is,  in  part,  the 
meaning  of  holiness.  "Who  are  His,  and  who 
is  holy?"  Those  who  have  experienced  separa- 
tion to  God  and  sin.  Give  us  this,  O  Lord  ; 
then  draw  us  near  to  Thyself,  and  we  will  run 
after  Thee ! 


133 


The  7na?i  whom  I  shall  choosey  his  rod  shall  bud. 

A^um.  xvii.  j  (R.  v.). 

THERE  was  deep  significance  in  this  method 
of  indicating  the  man  of  God's  choice.  Too 
many  have  taken  God's  election  as  referring  ex- 
clusively to  their  enjoyment  of  God's  grace  and 
their  preservation  to  His  heavenly  kingdom. 
Here  we  are  taught  that  one  of  its  chief  results 
will  be,  and  must  be — buds,  blossoms,  and  fruit. 
*'The  rod  of  Aaron  budded  and  bloomed, 
blossomed  and  bare  ripe  almonds."  It  would 
almost  seem  that  spring,  summer,  and  autumn ; 
the  promise,  maturity,  and  fruit — were  simul- 
taneously present  in  that  marvellous  rod.  So 
should  it  be  in  those  who  have  been  chosen  in 
Christ  to  be  holy. 

The  bud  of  spri?ig. — There  is  a  perennial 
freshness  in  the  true  saint.  He  may  be  old  in 
years,  but  his  leaf  is  green  with  vernal  tender- 
ness, and  there  are  the  budding  promises  of 
richer  and  better  things  than  he  has  yet  attained. 
The  youths  faint,  and  are  weary  ;  but  he  renews 
his  strength.  The  outward  man  decayeth,  but 
the  inward  renews  his  youth  like  an  eagle's. 

The  blossom  of  early  summer. — There  is  ex- 
quisite beauty  in  the  blossom  of  orchard  and 
garden.  No  painter  has  ever  yet  learned  God's 
secret  of  mixing  His  colors.  Such  is  the  beauty 
of  the  character  of  the  believer.  Men  say  invol- 
untarily, "  How  attractive,  how  beautiful !  " 

The  fruit  of  autuvm. — That  we  should  bear 
fruit  is  the  end  of  Christ  in  our  redemption  and 
discipline.  We  can  only  do  it  in  fellowship  with 
Himself.  He  must  bear  it  through  us.  "  From 
Me  is  thy  fruit  found."  **  I  have  chosen  you, 
that  ye  should  go  and  bear  fruit,  and  that  your 
fruit  should  remain." 

134 


/  am  thy  Portion  and  thine  Inheritance. 

Num.  xviii.  20  (R.  v,). 

WE  are  God's  portion,  and  He  is  ours.  The 
Lord's  portion  is  His  people ;  Israel  is  the  lot  of 
His  inheritance ;  and  He  says  to  the  soul,  I  am 
thy  Portion  and  thiiie  Inheritance.  We,  with  all 
we  have,  for  God  ;  and  God,  with  all  He  has, 
for  us.     "  Heirs  of  God." 

We  are  like  settlers  on  the  fringe  of  their 
estate. — The  emigrant  to  the  Far  West  has  a  plot 
of  land  allotted  to  him  ;  but  how  little  does  he 
know  of  its  contents ! — There  may  be  coal,  or 
iron-ore,  or  rivers  full  of  fish,  or  a  rich  soil ;  he 
settles  on  the  outskirts,  but  every  year  he  pushes 
his  fences  further  back  to  take  in  more  of  the 
land,  which  is  all  his,  but  it  is  not  yet  brought 
into  use,  or  under  cultivation.  So  each  year  we 
should  increase  in  the  knowledge  of  what  God  is, 
and  of  what  He  is  willing  to  be  to  us.  Not  as 
though  we  were  already  perfect ;  but  we  follow 
on  to  apprehend  that  for  which  we  were  appre- 
hended, and  to  be  filled  full  with  His  grace  and 
heavenly  benediction. 

Our  possession  of  God  will  largely  depend  on 
His  possession  of  us. — There  are  some  who  won- 
der that  God  is  so  much  more  to  others  than  to 
them.  Is  not  the  answer  to  be  found  in  their 
withholding  so  much  of  what  they  might  yield 
up  to  His  occupation  and  use?  If  you  would 
have  all  from  God,  you  must  give  all  to  God. 
Your  enjoyment  of  God  will  be  in  precise  pro- 
portion to  the  deepening  and  widening  consecra- 
tion of  your  life. 

Why  should  any  of  us  be  poor,  or  strengthless, 
or  fearful,  when  all  the  Godhead  is  stored  in 
Jesus,  and  awaits  our  appropriation  ?  Go  up  and 
possess  His  infinite  continent  that  flows  with 
milk  and  honey  ;  watered  by  the  rain  of  heaven; 
and  rich  in  treasure. 

135 


For  the  unclean^  they  shall  take  of  the  ashes. 
Num.  xix.  I'j  (r.  v.). 

IT  was  very  easy  to  become  unclean  without 
realizing  it.  To  touch  a  corpse,  to  be  in  the 
same  room  as  the  dead,  to  stumble  over  a  grave, 
was  enough  to  defile  the  Israelite,  and  excom- 
municate him  from  the  Tabernacle  with  its  holy 
rites.  Could  anything  more  graphically  set  forth 
the  contagiousness  of  sin?  We  cannot  be  in 
contact  with  those  who  are  dead  in  trespasses 
and  sins,  or  breathe  air  defiled  by  their  filthy 
speech,  or  read  books  which  contain  their 
thoughts,  without  suffering  in  some  way  by  it. 

This  is  the  reason  why,  at  the  end  of  the  day 
we  often  feel  unable  to  pray,  or  hold  fellowship 
with  God  :  we  are  excluded  from  the  Most  Holy 
Place,  because  of  this  defilement.  Indeed,  there 
is  only  one  way  of  escaping  it,  and  that  is  in  be- 
ing covered,  hermetically  sealed,  by  the  Spirit 
of  God.  *'In  whom  ye  were  sealed  unto  the 
day  of  redemption  "  (Eph.  iv.  30,  r.  v.). 

For  this  reason  also,  we  should  perpetually 
seek  fresh  cleansing  in  the  precious  blood  of 
Christ.  He  is  represented  in  this  heifer  without 
spot,  slain  in  its  prime,  whose  ashes  were  mingled 
in  running  water  to  testify  their  perpetual  efficacy 
and  freshness.  If  the  ashes  of  an  heifer  availed 
for  the  purifying  of  the  flesh,  how  much  more  shall 
the  blood  of  Christ  cleanse  our  consciences  ! 
Ask  perpetually  for  the  sprinkling  of  the  blood 
of  Jesus  Christ,  that  you  may  have  access  with 
confidence  into  the  Most  Holy  Place.  The  red 
heifer  of  Numbers  answers  to  John  xiii.  Let  us 
apply  the  ashes  and  the  water  of  purification  to 
each  other.  Jesus  said  :  "  If  I  then,  your  Lord 
and  Master,  have  washed  your  feet,  ye  also  ought 
to  wash  one  another's  feet." 


136 


speak  ye  to  the  rock ;  .  .  .  and  Moses  smote  the 
rock  twice.  Num.  xx.  8,  ii. 

WHAT  a  miracle  of  grace  is  here  !  Nothing 
could  have  been  more  explicit  than  the  Divine 
command  that  Moses  should,  on  this  occasion, 
simply  speak  to  the  rock.  We  cannot  fathom 
the  deep  reason ;  perhaps  it  was  because  the 
Spiritual  Rock  of  our  salvation  could  not  be 
smitten  by  the  soldier's  spear  twice.  *'  Christ 
was  07ice  offered  to  bear  the  sins  of  many." 
Moreover,  we  are  taught  to  wait  on  God  each 
time  we  perform  duties  which  appear  similar,  for 
the  ways  in  which  they  should  be  performed  may 
vary  widely.  It  is  clear,  whatever  the  reason, 
that  Moses  was  to  speak,  not  smite. 

However,  he  grievously  disobeyed ;  largely, 
probably,  because  he  could  not  believe  that  mere 
speech  would  suffice  for  the  miracle.  He  thought 
that  he  must  do  something  to  aid  God,  not  real- 
izing how  slight  a  part  man's  is  in  the  Divine 
esteem.  No  flesh  may  glory  in  His  presence. 
God  must  be  all  in  all.  We  must  believe  that  a 
word  is  enough  ;  and  that  God  will  do  the  rest. 

But,  in  spite  of  his  irritation,  disobedience, 
and  unbelief,  the  water  gushed  out.  The  sin  of 
the  servant  did  not  annul  the  love  and  faithful- 
ness of  God.  *'  If  we  believe  not.  He  remaineth 
faithful."  It  is  a  sweet  lesson.  We  are  worth- 
less and  unprofitable  servants ;  we  fail  to  believe 
and  obey.  But  God's  grace  flows  over  the  bank, 
and  inundates  the  wilderness  with  crystal  streams. 
The  Psalmist  says  the  waters  did  not  trickle, 
they  gushed  out.  Oh,  miracle  of  Divine  faith- 
fulness !  But  Moses  himself  had  to  pay  the 
penalty  in  later  years.  Disobedience  in  God's 
servants  cannot  be  condoned.  In  proportion 
to  the  saintliness  of  their  character  is  the  rigor 
of  their  punishment. 


137 


spring  up,  O  well ! 

Num.  xxi.  ly. 

THIS  was  a  sweet  song.  It  must  have  been  a 
stirring  scene,  when  Israel,  in  its  thousands,  sang 
forth  this  command  to  the  waters  that  were  under 
the  earth,  to  show  themselves,  with  the  musical 
accompaniment  of  the  gushing  rill. 

Spring  tip,  O  well,  in  our  hearts. — Too  long 
has  the  soil  been  arid  and  bare.  A  great  drought 
has  smitten  it,  and  devoured  every  green  thing. 
The  flowers  wither,  the  fruit  falls.  But  Jesus 
promised  to  open  in  believing  hearts  a  well,  the 
waters  of  which  should  spring  up  unto  eternal 
life.  Not  a  stagnant  pool,  but  a  spring.  Not  a 
failing  Cherith,  but  a  perennial  Siloam.  Let 
that  promise  be  realized  in  us  here,  and  now ; 
and  if  we  have  permitted  rubbish  to  accumulate, 
or  the  weeds  to  grow  rank,  may  we  have  grace  to 
put  them  away,  that  there  may  be  a  clear  course 
for  the  living  water  to  flow  through  us  and  re- 
fresh the  lives  of  all  with  whom  we  come  in  con- 
tact. 

Spring  tip,  O  well,  in  the  Church  of  God. — 
This  is  a  petition  with  which  we  may  enter  the 
place  of  worship  where  we  meet  God's  people. 
Spring  up,  O  well,  to-day  !  With  this  petition, 
we  may  plead  for  distant  mission  stations,  and 
for  the  entire  Church.  Jesus  dug  the  well  with 
the  staff  of  His  cross;  but  we  wish  that  the 
Spirit,  who  is  as  a  fountain  of  living  water,  fed 
from  eternity  and  returning  to  its  source,  may 
spring  up  within  it  with  greater  volume  and 
force. 

Spriftg  up,  O  well,  in  the  world. — It  is  weary 
with  sorrow  and  sin.  Too  far  and  long  have  the 
desert  sands  swept  their  devastations.  Hasten 
the  millennial  day,  when  springs  shall  break  out 
in  the  desert,  and  wildernesses  shall  blossom  as 
the  rose ! 

138 


The  Ano^el  of  the  Lord :  .   .   .  for  an  adversary 
agaifist  him.  Num.  xxii.  22. 

THE  Angel  of  Jehovah  is  often  referred  to  as 
a  very  present  help,  and  as  encamping  round 
about  those  that  fear  God ;  but  here,  as  an  ad- 
versary with  a  drawn  sword.  When  we  serve 
God  His  sword  is  for  us,  as  for  Joshua  at  Jeri- 
cho ;  but  when  we  turn  as  here  from  His  way  to 
our  crooked  paths,  it  is  drawn  against  us.  That 
which  seems  to  be  full  of  menace  is,  when  we 
look  deeper,  an  angel  force  seeking  to  stay  our 
further  progress  toward  destruction. 

Look  for  the  Angel  with  his  drawn  sword  in 
every  pain  of  body,  anxiety  of  circumstance,  or 
suffering  of  mind.  You  were  intent  on  pursuing 
your  own  way,  and  obtaining  the  rewards  of 
unrighteousness,  when  suddenly  you  were  stayed 
in  your  course.  Another  step  would  have 
brought  you  to  the  edge  of  the  precipice ;  but 
you  were  suddenly  arrested  by  that  which  for- 
bade advance.  Do  not  curse  the  hindering  ob- 
stacle. Beneath  it  is  God's  gentlest  angel,  en- 
deavoring to  turn  you  from  your  evil  purpose ; 
and  though  his  sword  may  be  drawn  against 
you,  yet  he  is  but  keeping  you  from  taking  that 
step  which  might  result  in  lifelong  regret. 

Too  often  our  eyes  are  holden.  We  fret  and 
chafe  against  God's  kindest  providence.  Our 
anger  is  kindled  at  the  ass  which  sees  the  angel, 
and  thrusts  herself  against  the  wall.  Let  this  day 
be  one  of  humble  searching  of  heart.  Try  to 
learn  the  reason  why  God  has  frustrated  your 
plans,  and  blocked  your  progress.  Ask  for  the 
opened  eyes.  Be  sure  that  there  is  mercy  in 
every  broken  plan.  He  sees  the  end  from  the 
beginning.  Bow  your  head,  and  acquiesce  in 
His  appointments.  Fall  on  your  face,  and  bless 
Him  whose  kindliest  angels  sometimes  assume 
the  roughest  disguise. 

139 


He  hath  blessed ^  and  I  cannot  reverse  it. 

Num.  xxiii.  20. 

BALAAM  would  have  reversed  the  blessing 
into  a  curse,  had  he  been  able.  Large  rewards 
were  depending  on  his  doing  so.  But  he  was  re- 
strained. The  current  of  blessing  was  running 
too  strong  for  him  to  stem :  the  music  was  too 
overpowering  for  him  to  alter  the  air.  Is  not 
this  also  the  despair  of  Satan?  God  hath  blessed 
us  with  all  spiritual  blessings  in  Christ  Jesus,  and 
he  cannot  reverse  them. 

The  blessing  of  adoption. — When  the  soul  be- 
lieves in  Jesus,  it  is  adopted  into  the  family  of 
God  ;  the  new  life  begins  to  throb  within ;  it  is 
constituted  an  heir  of  God,  a  joint-heir  with 
Christ  (John  i.  12).  This  position  is  irreversible. 
We  may  be  tempted  and  overthrown,  we  may  go 
for  a  season  into  the  far  country,  we  may  even 
bring  the  family-name  into  contempt;  but  Satan 
cannot  untie  the  knot  with  which  God  has  bound 
us  to  Himself. 

The  blessing  of  acceptance  in  the  Beloved. — 
We  are  in  Him,  chosen  in  Him  before  the  foun- 
dation of  the  world,  risen  and  ascended  and 
seated  in  Him  in  the  hcavenlies;  and  as  our 
God  views  us  in  Jesus,  He  cannot  behold  in- 
iquity or  see  perverseness  in  Him,  and  He  ac- 
cepts and  blesses  us  as  His  well-beloved.  This, 
too,  is  irreversible  by  the  arts  and  machinations 
of  the  great  Accuser. 

The  blessiftg  of  the  covenant. — God  has  taken 
us  to  be  a  people  for  His  own  possession.  His 
name  is  named  on  us,  His  character  is  implicated 
in  our  ultimate  deHverance  from  evil,  and  glorifi- 
cation. If  we  could  be  cast  away,  He  would 
suffer  irreparable  dishonor.  Therefore,  though 
Satan  do  his  utmost  to  discredit  us,  as  he  did  the 
patriarch  Job,  he  cannot  reverse  the  covenant  in 
which  God  and  we  are  forever  and  indissolubly 
joined. 

140 


The  Spirit  of  God  came  upon  him. 

Ahim.  xxiv.  2. 

THIS  is  a  solemn  warning  for  us  all.  Balaam 
saw  truly,  but  he  perished  miserably.  He  heard 
the  words  of  God,  and  saw  the  vision  of  the  Al- 
mighty ;  but  because  he  loved  the  wages  of  un- 
righteousness, and  taught  Balak  to  cast  the  stum- 
bling-block of  licentiousness  before  the  children 
of  Israel,  he  was  slain  in  battle  by  the  people 
whom  he  had  blessed.  He  wished  to  die  the 
death  of  the  righteous,  but  was  overtaken  in  that 
of  the  apostate.  How  near  we  may  come  to  the 
gates  of  salvation,  and  yet  perish  miserably  with- 
out! 

Distinguish  between  unction  and  union. — 
Hooper,  the  greatest  of  English  divines,  says: 
"  We  are  not  to  confuse  the  grace  of  union  with 
the  grace  of  unction.**  It  is  possible  to  be  united 
to  the  Lord  Jesus  in  regeneration,  without  re- 
ceiving the  enduement  of  the  Holy  Spirit  for  serv- 
ice; and  it  is  possible,  like  Saul,  to  be  anointed 
for  high  office,  without  being  truly  regenerate. 
Official  position  may  be  worthily  filled,  and  yet 
the  heart  be  all  awry. 

Distinguish  between  gift  and  grace. — We  may 
be  able  to  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  of 
angels,  and  have  the  gift  of  prayer,  and  know  all 
mysteries  and  all  knowledge ;  and  yet  be  without 
love.  The  most  gifted  souls  are  by  no  means  the 
most  gracious.  Desire  earnestly  the  greater  gifts, 
if  you  will ;  but  be  very  sure  that  your  heart  is 
established  with  grace. 

Distinguish  between  vision  and  realization. — 
To  see  the  fair  land  from  afar,  as  Balaam  did,  is 
not  enough  ;  we  must  place  our  foot  down  on  its 
soil,  and  go  into  it  to  possess.  It  is  not  enough 
to  have  an  intellectual  appreciation  of  the  blessed 
life  and  the  way  to  enter  it ;  not  enough  to  extol 
or  proclaim  it.  We  must  make  it  ours  by  hu- 
mility and  faith. 

141 


Israel  joined  himself  unto  Baal-Peor. 

Num.  XXV.  J. 

THE  margin  of  the  Revised  Version  gives  the 
alternative,  yoked.  The  people  were  attracted 
by  the  charms  of  the  women  of  Moab  ;  but  what 
they  entered  for  pleasure,  became  clasped  on 
them  as  a  yoke.  '*  Every  one  that  committeth 
sin  is  the  bond-servant  of  sin"  (John  viii.  34,  r. 
v.). 

Sin  ts  slavery. — The  drunkard  loathes  his 
chains,  vows  not  to  yield  again ;  but  sinks 
deeper  into  the  mire  with  every  ineffectual 
struggle.  The  libertine  is  bound  with  passions, 
his  heart  is  a  dungeon,  his  conscience  a  scourge. 
We  are  promised  pleasure  and  gratification  ;  but 
when  once  the  syrens  have  prevailed  and  got  us 
in  their  power,  they  cast  off  their  disguise,  and 
work  their  horrid  will. 

The  only  deliverance  is  through  the  anointed 
priest. — Phinehas  interposed,  and  he  was  Aaron's 
grandson,  on  whom  the  anointing  oil  rested. 
And  this  illustrates  a  remarkable  expression  in 
Isaiah  x.  27,  "  The  yoke  shall  be  destroyed  be- 
cause of  the  anointing."  Is  not  that  the  anoint- 
ing of  the  Holy  Ghost  ?  It  is  only  through  the 
Holy  Spirit  that  we  can  be  made  free  with  the 
freedom  of  the  Son  of  God.  Where  He  is  there 
is  liberty.  *'Walk  in  the  Spirit,  and  ye  shall 
not  fulfill  the  lusts  of  the  flesh.  For  the  flesh 
lusteth  against  the  Spirit,  and  the  Spirit  against 
the  flesh." 

We  must  die  to  the  sijt  that  enchained  us. — 
There  could  be  no  half-measures.  Phinehas  took 
a  spear.  Whatever  the  cursed  thing  is  which 
has  crept  in  to  enslave,  it  must  be  slain  before 
the  Lord.  Is  there  some  secret  evil  in  your  soul, 
eating  out  its  strength?  Ask  the  Faithful  High 
Priest  to  deal  with  it,  that  your  soul  may  cast  off 
its  bondage,  and  rise  into  the  liberty  of  the  sons 
of  God. 

142 


There  was  not  left  a  man  of  them. 

Num.  xxvi.  6^. 

TWICE  Moses  numbered  the  people :  on  the 
first  occasion  Aaron  was  his  colleague,  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  forty  years;  on  the  second  occa- 
sion Eleazar,  and  this  was  at  the  end  of  the  wan- 
derings, on  the  threshold  of  Canaan.  But  only 
two  had  survived,  Joshua  and  Caleb,  because 
only  they  followed  the  Lord.  God  deals  with  a 
nation  by  dealing  with  individuals.  He  misses 
no  one. 

His  love  misses  none. — The  little  sick  child 
put  her  hand  outside  the  coverlet  before  falling 
asleep,  in  the  hope  that  the  Good  Shepherd 
would  notice  it,  and  not  miss  her,  as  He  passed 
down  the  hospital  ward.  But  there  is  no  need 
to  fear  His  missing  us,  whose  eyes  are  like  a 
flame  of  fire,  bringing  the  light  with  which  they 
see.  He  tasted  death  for  every  man  ;  He  seeks 
each  missing  sheep,  each  lost  coin.  **  He  loved 
me,  and  gave  Himself  for  me.'^ 

His  Spirit  misses  none. — If  thou  hast  faith  as 
a  grain  of  mustard  seed,  it  will  attract  His  no- 
tice. If  thou  yieldest  thyself  to  His  Spirit, 
though  thy  lung  be  weak  and  diseased.  He  will 
fill  it.  If  thou  desirest  to  be  endued  with  the  gift 
of  Pentecost,  it  will  fall  upon  thy  head,  though 
thou  art  as  obscure  as  the  shepherd-psalmist  of 
old. 

Death  and  judgment  miss  none. — On  each  of 
these  unbelieving  men  the  Divine  sentence  was 
executed.  One  or  two  might  linger,  as  autumn 
leaves  on  the  topmost  boughs  of  stripped  trees ; 
but  ultimately  they  shared  the  fate  of  their  com- 
panions. Unless  Christ  come  first,  our  turn  will 
come.  In  Adam  all  die.  We  must  all  appear 
before  the  judgment -seat  of  Christ.  Each  was 
born  alone,  must  die  alone,  and  alone  give  an 
account  to  the  King.  Prepare,  my  soul,  to  meet 
Him! 

143 


At  His  word  shall  they  go  outj  and  at  His  word 
they  shall  come  in.  Num.  xxvU.  zi. 

THE  emphasis  is  on  the  word  His.  Moses 
had  asked  God  to  indicate  a  successor  to  lead 
out  and  bring  in  the  people.  But  Jehovah  drew 
a  distinction.  Joshua  was  to  receive  the  Divine 
direction  from  Eleazar,  the  priest,  who  should 
enquire  of  the  Lord  ;  and  at  His  word,  /.  <f., 
God's  word  through  Eleazar,  the  people  were  to 
go  out  and  come  in. 

Our  goings-out  should  be  determined  by  the 
Word  of  God. — We  never  waste  time  when  we 
stand  before  the  true  Priest,  who  has  the  Urim 
of  Divine  direction,  especially  when  we  are  con- 
sidering some  call  to  duty.  Very  often  we  have 
gone  out  at  the  instigation  of  pride,  or  emulation, 
or  fussy  activity;  we  have  gone  out  because 
others  have  done  so,  and  we  were  eager  not  to 
be  left  behind.  Under  these  circumstances  the 
outgoings  of  our  mornings  have  not  been  made 
to  rejoice ;  we  have  encountered  disappointment 
and  defeat.  When  we  go  forth  at  God's  bid- 
ding. He  becomes  absolutely  responsible ;  other- 
wise we  pierce  ourselves  through  with  many  sor- 
rows, and  bring  discredit  on  the  cause  we  would 
fain  serve. 

Our  comings-in  must  be  deternmied  by  the 
Word  of  God. — When  we  should  come  in  to 
rest,  to  pray,  to  fill  again  our  souls  with  His 
Spirit,  to  suffer  in  secret,  or  to  die,  must  be  left 
to  the  determination  of  His  will.  It  is  easier  to 
go  out  than  to  come  in.  Activity  is  pleasanter 
than  passivity ;  the  stir  and  rush  of  the  world 
preferable  to  lying  still  to  suffer.  But  our  times 
are  in  His  hand,  and  as  soon  as  we  recognize  the 
decisions  of  the  Urim  in  the  appointments  of 
Divine  Providence,  the  speedier  shall  we  be  at 
peace.  If  we  are  fully  surrendered  to  God,  both 
our  going-out  and  our  coming-in  shall  be  ordered 
aright  by  His  Spirit. 

144 


My  food. 

Num.  xxviii.  2  (r.  v.). 

GOD  speaks  as  .though  He  fed,  through  the 
sacrificial  flame,  on  the  offerings  of  His  people. 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  obedience  of  the 
blessed  Lord  to  the  death  of  the  cross  was  very 
satisfying  to  the  hunger  of  the  Father's  heart 
(Eph.  V.  2)  ;  and  there  is  a  sense  in  which  our 
prayers  and  praises,  the  offering  of  ourselves  in 
consecration,  the  gifts  we  lay  before  Him,  are, 
when  laid  upon  the  altar  of  Christ,  very  pleasing 
to  God.     They  are  His  food  (Heb.  xiii.  15,  16). 

We  often  speak  of  ourselves  as  hungering  for 
God.  Do  we  sufficiently  realize  that  He  hungers 
for  our  love,  our  whole-hearted  devotion,  our 
fellowship  with  Him  ?  May  it  not  sometimes  act 
as  an  incentive  to  prayer  to  reflect  that  we  may  be 
passing  from  our  chamber  in  the  morning  leaving 
God's  desire  unsatisfied?  He  was  longing  for 
the  uplifting  of  our  soul  in  devotion  and  praise 
which  was  not  forthcoming.  Still,  as  of  old,  in 
the  morning  the  hungry  Lord  comes  to  seek 
fruit  on  His  trees.  Too  often  there  is  nothing 
but  leaves.  Too  seldom  does  He  have  the  op- 
portunity of  saying:  "I  have  eaten  My  honey- 
comb with  My  honey." 

If  we  really  loved  Jesus,  we  should  be  eager  to 
give  Him  food  in  our  prayers,  and  yearnings, 
and  activities ;  and  we  should  long  with  intense 
desire  for  Him  to  be  satisfied,  though  we  were 
not  primarily  concerned  in  spreading  His  ban- 
queting table.  It  were  enough  for  us  to  know 
that  His  hunger  was  feeding  on  the  love  of  saints, 
or  on  the  joy  of  new  converts,  though  we  were 
not  the  medium  of  the  one  or  the  other.  Oh  for 
this  unselfish  love  for  Jesus,  which  looks  at  things 
from  His  standpoint,  altogether  irrespective  of 
ourselves ! 


145 


Ye  shall  do  no  servile  work. 

Num.  xxix.  I,  7,  12, 35. 

THERE  was  a  good  deal  of  work  to  be  done, 
but  it  was  not  servile  work.  Throughout  the 
seventh  month,  the  work  centered  around  the 
Tabernacle  and  the  service  of  God,  rather  than 
around  the  tents  and  occupations  of  Israel  as  at 
other  times.  The  same  distinction  is  clearly 
made  by  the  Apostle;  our  faith  and  salvation  are 
not  of  works,  lest  any  man  should  boast ;  but  we 
are  created  in  Christ  Jesus  unto  good  works  (Eph. 
ii.  9,  10). 

Do  not  work  up  to  the  Cross ^  but  down  from 
it. — We  must  come  empty-handed  to  the  Cross, 
and  receive  forgiveness  and  eternal  life ;  but  these 
will  immediately  begin  to  vindicate  their  presence 
in  the  fruits  of  righteousness.  None  work  like 
those  who  have  been  saved  by  the  grace  of  God 
— but  their  work  is  not  servile  work ;  not  that  of 
slaves,  but  of  sons.  Many  confuse  these,  trying 
to  work/<7r  salvation,  instead  of  receiving  it  first 
and  then  working. 

Do  not  work  up  to  union  with  Christy  but 
frofn  it. — We  cannot  unite  ourselves  to  the  true 
Vine  by  any  activity  of  ours ;  our  only  resort  is 
to  lay  ourselves  at  the  feet  of  the  great  Husband- 
man, that  He  may  graft  us  into  living  union  with 
Jesus.  When  once  that  union  is  consummated, 
through  our  yielded  nature,  the  Root  begins  to 
pour  His  mighty  energy.  Fruit-bearing  is  not 
servile  work ;  but  easy,  natural,  blessed. 

Do  not  work  up  to  Pentecost,  but  out  from  it. 
— We  cannot  win  the  gift  of  the  blessed  Paraclete. 
No  tears,  prayers,  agonies  of  soul,  can  purchase 
it.  It  must  be  received  by  a  single  act  of  faith. 
But  when  once  He  is  in  us  in  His  fullness,  then 
tears,  and  prayers,  and  strivings  for  the  salvation 
of  men  flow  out  without  effort.  But  there  is 
no  servility,  no  strain,  no  restraint,  save  that  of 
love. 

146 


The  Lord  shall  forgive  her. 

Num.  XXX.  J,  8f  12. 

IF  the  father  or  husband  disallowed  the  vow  a 
woman  made,  it  would  not  stand,  nor  would  she 
be  held  responsible  for  its  fulfillment.  God 
would  not  keep  her  to  a  promise  which  was 
hindered  from  execution  by  causes  over  which 
she  had  no  control.  This  is  a  profound  prin- 
ciple. 

You  may  feel  that  a  certain  step  is  required  of 
you  by  Christ ;  that  indeed  you  are  bound  by  your 
allegiance  to  Him  to  take  it;  nay,  you  have 
already  promised  Him  that  you  will  take  it ;  but, 
suddenly  and  most  unexpectedly,  you  are  pre- 
vented from  taking  it.  The  express  prohibition 
of  those  who  have  a  right  to  determine  your 
action,  or  the  verdict  of  the  physician,  or  the 
evident  call  of  duty  in  another  direction,  makes 
it  needful  for  you  to  relinquish  your  project. 
What  then  :  is  God  grieved  and  angry  ?  Not  so ; 
He  understands  the  whole  of  the  case  perfectly, 
and  accepts  your  will  for  the  deed,  and  bids  you 
go  in  peace.  This,  however,  does  not  affect  mat- 
ters in  which  conscience  is  clear  in  demanding 
or  prohibiting  a  certain  line  of  conduct. 

Sometimes  God's  silence  is  consent.  You  made 
your  solemn  dedication  in  His  holy  presence: 
there  was  no  answering  voice,  or  rush  of  emotion, 
or  witnessing  seal ;  He  held  His  peace  from  day 
to  day.  But  in  that  silence  He  established  all 
your  vows,  all  your  bonds. 

If  parents  capriciously  forbid  their  children 
carrying  out  solemn  resolutions  and  vows,  the 
burden  of  blame  must  rest  on  their  shoulders. 
They  must  render  their  account  to  God,  and  give 
answer  for  their  action.  It  will  go  hard  with 
those  who  put  needless  hindrances  and  obstacles 
in  their  brothers'  pathway. 


147 


Everything  that  may  abide  thefire^  ye  shall  make 
to  go  through  the  fire.  Num.  xxxi.  23. 

THE  great  aim  of  this  enactment  was  to  render 
these  articles  ceremonially  clean.  They  had  been 
in  the  use  of  the  Midianites,  and  required  cleans- 
ing, before  they  could  be  appropriated  by  Israel. 
But  the  cleansing  processes  were  to  be  determined 
by  their  texture.  Fire  for  what  would  stand  fire ; 
water  for  what  could  not  stand  fire. 

We  must  be  thoroughly  cleansed. — If  a  man 
will  purge  himself,  he  shall  be  a  vessel  unto 
honor,  meet  for  the  Master's  use.  Not  clever- 
ness, but  cleanliness,  is  the  prime  condition  of 
service.  Jesus  will  not  put  throne- water  into 
impure  and  polluted  receptacles.  What  fellow- 
ship hath  Christ  with  Belial  ? 

We  shall  not  be  passed  through  fire,  unless  we 
can  stand  it. — Our  faith  is  too  precious  to  God  to 
be  exposed  to  risk.  He  will  not  let  us  be 
tempted  beyond  what  we  are  able,  lest  we  be  dis- 
couraged, and  make  shipwreck.  If,  then,  you  are 
called  at  this  time  to  pass  through  an  unusually 
searching  ordeal,  be  sure  that  your  Heavenly 
Father  knows  that  you  can  endure  it.  *'  That 
the  trial  of  your  faith,  being  much  more  precious 
than  of  gold  that  perisheth,  though  it  be  tried  by 
fire,  might  be  found  unto  praise  and  honor  and 
glory  at  the  appearing  of  Jesus  Christ." 

We  must  go  through  water,  if  not  through  fire. 
— The  law  provided  also  that  "all  that  abideth 
not  the  fire,  ye  shall  make  go  through  the  water." 
The  one  is  negative,  the  other  positive;  the  first 
appertains  to  John  the  Baptist,  the  second  to  the 
Holy  Spirit.  The  latter  is  the  best;  but  be 
thankful,  if  you  cannot  endure  it,  that  there  is  a 
discipline  more  tempered  and  gentle,  which  will 
yet  render  you  meet  for  the  handling  of  the  Holy 
Saviour. 

148 


Be  sure  your  sin  will  find  you  out. 

Num.  xxxii.  2j. 

SIN  is  like  the  boomerang  of  the  savage,  it 
comes  back  on  the  hand  that  has  launched  it 
forth.  The  brethren  accused  Joseph  of  being  a 
spy,  and  cast  him  into  the  pit;  and  on  the  same 
charge  they  were  cast  into  prison.  King  David 
committed  adultery  and  murder ;  so  Absalom  re- 
quited him.  The  Jews  crucified  the  blessed 
Lord ;  and  they  were  impaled  around  Jerusalem 
till  room  and  wood  for  their  crosses  failed. 

There  is  a  Divine  order  in  society.  God  has 
so  constituted  the  world,  that  as  man  deals  with 
his  neighbor,  so  he  is  dealt  with.  The  conse- 
quence does  not  always  follow  immediately. 
There  is  often  a  long  interval  between  the  light- 
ning flash  and  the  thunder-peal.  The  sentence 
against  an  evil  work  is  not  executed  suddenly. 
But  though  God's  mills  grind  slowly,  they  do 
grind,  and  to  powder.  It  is  impossible  to  de- 
ceive God;  for  it  is  His  immutable  law,  "what- 
soever a  man  soweth,  that  shall  he  also  reap.  For 
he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap 
corruption ;  but  he  that  soweth  to  the  Spirit 
shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting  "  (Gal.  vi. 
7.8). 

When  sin  comes  to  find  you  out,  like  a  sleuth- 
hound  on  the  track  of  the  criminal,  be  sure  that 
it  finds  you  in  Jesus.  **  That  I  may  be  found  in 
Him."  Nothing  will  avail  to  intercept  the  awful 
execution  of  sin's  vengeance,  except  the  blood 
and  righteousness  of  Jesus.  Put  Him  between 
you  and  your  sins,  between  you  and  your  past, 
between  you  and  the  penalty  of  a  broken  law. 
Be  sure  that  only  when  the  blood  of  Jesus  speaks 
for  you  through  earth  and  heaven,  there  can  be  a 
cutting  off  of  sin's  terrible  entail. 


149 


They  journeyed  from    Mar  ah  y   and  came   unto 
Elifn  :  and  in  Elim  .   .   .  Num.  xxxiii.  g  (r.  v.). 

IN  his  enumeration  of  the  halting  places  of 
Israel,  Moses  mentions  Marah  and  Elim.  In  the 
case  of  the  former,  he  does  not  dwell  on  the  mur- 
muring of  the  people  over  the  bitter  stream  :  but 
in  the  case  of  Elim,  he  loves  to  dilate  on  the 
twelve  springs  of  water,  and  the  three-score  and 
ten  palm  trees,  under  which  they  pitched.  Years 
of  weary  travel  had  not  obliterated  the  memory 
of  the  refreshment  afforded  by  those  seventy 
palms. 

We  should  remember  the  blessings  of  the  past. 
— God  has  so  made  us  that  we  soon  forget  pain  ; 
but  memory  is  willing  to  keep  the  fresco-pictures 
of  sunny  scenes  unobliterated  upon  the  walls  of 
her  galleries.  Thus  we  may  encourage  our  faith 
and  comfort  our  hearts,  by  musing  on  the  hand  of 
the  Lord  which  has  been  upon  us  for  good.  You 
have  had  many  hard  tracks  of  desert  sand  to 
traverse ;  but  never  forget  those  three-score  and 
ten  palm  trees.  Let  their  gracious  shade  and 
fruit  still  refresh  you.  And  remember  that  God 
will  restore  them,  whenever  needed.  If  not,  you 
can  always  find  your  palm  trees  and  wells  in 
Himself. 

God  does  not  remember  the  sins  of  the  past. — 
There  is  no  word  of  their  murmurings,  either  at 
Marah  or  Rephidim.  It  is  thus  that  God  deals 
with  us.  "I,  even  I,  am  He  that  blotteth  out 
thy  transgressions  for  mine  own  sake,  and  will 
not  remember  thy  sins."  When  God  forgives. 
He  forgets.  He  erases  the  record  from  His  book, 
and  deals  with  us  as  though  no  sin  had  been 
committed.  When  we  get  to  heaven  and  study 
the  way-book,  we  shall  find  all  the  deeds  of  love 
and  self-denial  carefully  recorded,  though  we 
have  forgotten  them ;  and  all  the  sins  blotted 
out,  though  we  remember  them. 
150 


This  is  the  land  which  ye  shall  inherit. 

Num.  xxxiv.  ij. 

IT  is  important  that  we  should  know  the  limits 
and  possibilities  of  our  lives.  We  must  beat  the 
bounds,  first  to  know  how  far  we  may  go ;  and 
secondly  where  we  must  stop,  in  our  inheritance. 

How  far  we  may  go. — It  is  our  privilege  to 
know  God  and  the  hope  of  His  calling,  and  the 
riches  of  the  glory  of  His  indwelling  in  our 
hearts,  and  the  power  of  the  Resurrection  throb- 
bing within  us,  lifting  us  to  share  the  risen  life  of 
Jesus.  Day  by  day  we  may  be  kept  from  yield- 
ing to  known  sin ;  day  by  day,  though  keenly 
conscious  of  temptation,  we  may  be  more  than 
conquerors;  day  by  day,  the  Holy  Spirit  may 
work  in  us  perfect  love  toward  God  and  man,  to 
the  limit  of  our  light ;  day  by  day  the  Lord-  Jesus 
may  be  more  perfectly  formed  within  us. 

Where  we  must  stop. — We  may  expect  to  be 
blameless,  but  not  faultless,  till  He  present  us  to 
Himself:  to  be  delivered  from  temptation,  but 
not  freed  from  its  assaults :  to  be  kept  in  perfect 
peace,  but  not  secured  from  the  pressure  of  ad- 
versity :  to  be  dead  to  sin  and  self,  but  not  dar- 
ing to  say  that  either  is  dead  within  us :  to  be 
delivered  from  this  present  evil  world,  as  to  spirit 
and  temper,  though  still  called  to  inhabit  it  as  its 
salt  and  light.  Take  possession  of  every  inch  of 
God-given  territory  in  Jesus,  but  beware  of  going 
beyond  it. 

It  is  a  solemn  question  to  all  who  have  been 
appointed  leaders  in  God's  hosts,  whether  they 
are  rightly  dividing  their  heritage.  We  must 
hold  back  nothing  that  is  profitable :  nor  must 
we  shun  to  declare  the  whole  counsel  of  God. 
Let  our  preaching  and  teaching  include  all  God's 
provision  for  His  children. 


151 


The  Death  of  the  High  Priest. 

Num.  XXXV.  2J,  28,  32. 

ONE  after  another  they  passed  away.  They 
were  not  able  to  continue  by  reason  of  death. 
Their  offices,  and  garments,  and  ministry,  passed 
from  each  in  turn,  as  from  Aaron,  whom  Moses 
stripped  with  his  own  hands  on  Nebo.  But  their 
death  only  brings  into  greater  prominence  the 
encouraging  contrast  in  the  case  of  our  blessed 
Lord,  who  ever  liveth,  and  hath,  therefore,  an 
unchangeable  priesthood. 

Christ  ever  lives  :  what  an  encouragement  to  the 
penitent ! — All  that  He  ever  was,  He  is ;  all  that 
He  ever  did  for  others,  He  is  willing  to  do  for 
thee.  The  records  of  His  earthly  life,  with  His 
tenderness  for  those  who  were  out  of  the  way,  are 
leaves  and  specimen  pages  of  the  diary  of  His 
life.  Therefore,  there  need  be  no  hesitation  in 
applying  to  Him. 

Christ  ever  lives :  what  a  blessing  to  the 
saint ! — '*I  am  He  that  liveth."  He  bent  over 
His  fainting  apostle,  and  said  in  effect,  You  re- 
member what  I  was  when  you  leaned  on  My 
bosom,  followed  Me  to  the  shore  on  which  I  had 
prepared  your  repast,  and  assured  you  of  My 
never-altering  affection.  I  am  all  that  still ; 
through  death  I  have  come  to  a  life  which  can 
never  decay ;  because  I  live,  ye  shall  live  also. 
Let  us  rest  our  souls  on  this  sweet  word — from 
His  heart  there  will  ever  stream  to  us  rivers  of 
incorruptible  life.  Let  us  keep  all  the  channels 
of  our  being  open  toward  the  fountain  of  eternal 
life,  that  there  may  be  no  stint  or  restraint  to  our 
reception. 

Christ  ever  lives :  what  a  warning  to  the 
Church  ! — There  is  no  need,  therefore,  of  the 
human  priest  to  transact  matters  between  man 
and  God.  The  Son  is  Priest  and  King  in  His 
own  house,  in  the  power  of  an  endless  life  ;  and 
human  mediators  are  no  more  necessary  than 
flickering  night-lights  at  noon. 
152 


The  inheritance  of  Zelophehad  unto  his  daughters. 

Nicin.  xxxvi.  2. 

FROM  the  earliest,  the  germ-principle  of  the 
emancipation  of  woman,  and  her  right  to  stand 
on  an  equality  with  man,  is  recognized  in  Scrip- 
ture. These  women  were  heiresses  in  their  own 
right,  and  might  marry  as  they  thought  best. 
Christianity  in  this  respect,  as  in  so  many  others, 
is  the  fulfillment  of  the  Divine  thought  in  the  older 
dispensation.  Ruth  was  the  prototype  of  Mary 
of  Bethany ;  Rahab  of  the  Syrophenician  woman ; 
Hagar  of  Lydia. 

The  inheritance  of  woman  in  the  nature  of 
Christ. — There  are  certain  qualities  in  the  Son  of 
Man  peculiarly  adapted  for  the  heart  of  woman. 
Tenderness  for  her  many  tears — "Woman,  why 
wcepest  thou?"  Sympathy  in  her  quest  for  a 
love  that  will  not  fail — "Mary."  An  answer  to 
her  many  questions — "Woman,  believe  Me." 
Strength  for  her  clinging  weakness — "Forbid 
her  not."  Hope  for  her  despair — "If  thou 
couldest  believe,  thou  shouldest  see  the  glory  of 
God."  O  woman,  remember  Him  who  is  the 
counterpart  of  thy  need,  and  offers  thee  Himself. 
"  The  same  is  my  sister." 

The  inheritance  of  woman  in  the  work  of 
Christ. — She  is  called  to  enrich  men  by  bring- 
ing to  them  her  inheritance.  So  the  daughters 
of  Zelophehad  brought  their  land  to  their 
husbands,  and  the  women  bore  the  tidings  of 
the  risen  Lord  to  the  disciples.  Thus  women, 
receiving  much  from  fellowship  with  Christ, 
come  to  men,  steeped  in  materialism  and  sense, 
telling  of  a  purer,  fairer  life,  and  summoning 
them  to  inherit  it.  Well  is  it  for  the  home 
where  this  principle  is  recognized,  and  where  the 
wife  and  mother  is  ever  feeding  her  soul  with 
noble  ideals,  to  correct  the  false  estimates  that 
too  much  contact  with  men  of  the  world  are  apt 
to  induce  in  those  she  loves  ! 
153 


The  Lord  thy  God  bare  thee. 

Deut.  i.  SI. 

A  SAFE  carriage  was  that !  In  His  love  and 
in  His  pity  God  redeemed  them,  and  bare  them, 
and  carried  them  all  the  days  of  old.  When  the 
little  lad  was  tired  and  complained  of  his  head, 
his  father  bade  a  servant  carry  him  to  his  mother ; 
but  God  does  not  hand  over  His  children  to  His 
servants,  He  carries  them  Himself.  When  we 
realize  that  His  everlasting  arms  are  underneath, 
it  is  safer  riding  than  any  the  ingenuity  of  man 
can  devise ;  and  here  we  need  fear  no  ill. 

*'  In  all  the  way.'' ^ — There  are  great  varieties 
in  the  way — sometimes  the  sleepers  are  badly 
laid,  and  the  carriage  rocks  and  jolts;  sometimes 
the  gradient  is  steep,  and  the  progress  tedious ; 
sometimes  the  pilgrim  has  to  go  afoot,  climbing 
with  difficulty  from  ridge  to  ridge;  sometimes 
the  route  lies  through  a  territory  infested  with 
enemies,  and  haunted  by  miasma;  but  we  can 
each  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  Lord  ^'knoweth 
the  way  that  I  take,"  and  that  all  the  way,  those 
gentle  and  unwearied  arms  bear  us  up  and  on. 

*^  All  the  days.^^ — Never  a  day  without  its 
cross,  its  lesson,  its  discipline,  its  peril ;  but  never 
a  day  that  God  does  not  bear  us  up  in  His 
hands,  as  some  mighty  river  bears  up  the  boat  of 
the  missionary  explorer.  Through  wilds,  past 
villages  of  infuriated  savages,  over  reefs  and 
rocks,  the  patient  river  bears  the  voyager  and  his 
goods.  Thus  does  God  carry  us.  The  Good 
Shepherd  carries  the  lambs  in  His  bosom.  Why, 
then,  should  we  dread  the  future,  or  quail  before 
the  faces  of  our  foes?  "The  eternal  God  is  thy 
refuge ;  and  underneath  are  the  everlasting 
arms."  So  strong  :  so  tender  !  Let  yourself  go, 
and  trust. 


154 


Wheresoever  the  Lord  our  God  forbade  us. 

Deut.  ii.  37  (R.  v.). 

THIS  chapter  is  full  of  restrictions  and  pro- 
hibitions. There  were  territories  which  Israel 
was  forbidden  to  enter  at  that  time ;  though 
afterward,  in  the  days  of  David,  Solomon,  and 
Hezekiah,  they  were  all  included  in  the  posses- 
sions of  the  chosen  people. 

There  are  temporary  limitations  in  all  lives. 
Paul  was  forbidden  to  preach  the  Word  in  Asia, 
when  first  he  came  on  its  frontiers ;  though  two 
or  three  years  after  he  so  filled  it  with  his  teach- 
ing that  the  trade  of  the  silversmiths,  who  made 
shrines  for  Diana,  was  affected. 

Limitations  in  our  Usefulness. — Provinces  of 
holy  endeavor  seem  shut  against  you,  as  the  Gen- 
tile world  from  the  public  ministry  of  Jesus. 
Nevertheless,  do  your  best  in  what  is  open,  as  He 
did  for  the  Jews,  and  the  rest  will  be  unbarred ; 
but  if  not,  in  God's  good  time,  the  field  will  be 
cultivated  by  hands  specially  instructed  and  pre- 
pared. 

Limitations  in  Knowledge. — There  are  mys- 
teries which,  in  the  earlier  stages  of  their  ex- 
perience, are  not  made  known  to  the  saints ;  but 
which  we  come  to  know,  as  we  follow  on  to  know 
the  Lord.  And  while  there  may  be  much  in 
God's  providence  that  is  difficult  to  understand, 
yet  our  knowledge  of  Himself  may  increase  as  the 
years  go  by,  until  we  glory  in  this,  that  we  un- 
derstand and  know  Him  (Jer.  ix.  23). 

Limitations  in  Experience. — Not  to  every  one 
is  it  given  to  feel  Christ's  love  as  Rutherford  did. 
Some  are  excluded  from  the  sunny  realms,  as 
Cowper  was.  Such  is  the  choice  of  God  for 
them,  and  it  must  be  best ;  but  they  shall  all  at- 
tain one  day  to  the  stature  of  the  perfect  man, 
and  possess  the  blessedness  from  which  they  are 
now  restrained. 

155 


speak  no  more  unto  Me  of  this  matter. 

Deut.  Hi.  26. 

WE  are  to  pray  without  ceasing ;  always  pray- 
ing, never  fainting;  asking,  seeking,  knocking. 
But  there  are  some  subjects  concerning  which 
God  says,  "Speak  no  more  unto  Me  of  this." 
In  some  cases  these  topics  have  to  do  with 
others,  but  more  often  with  ourselves,  as  in  the 
case  of  the  Apostle  Paul  (2  Cor.  xii.  9). 

It  is  an  awful  thing  when  God  says  of  certain 
individuals,  Ephraim  is  joined  to  idols,  let  him 
alone;  and  when  the  conviction  is  wrought 
within  us  that  the  sin  unto  death  is  being  com- 
mitted, concerning  which  even  the  Apostle  John 
said,  *'  I  do  not  say  that  he  should  pray  for  it." 
Such  times  come  comparatively  rarely;  and  so 
long  as  you  feel  able  to  pray  for  another,  so  long 
as  no  negative  has  been  spoken,  you  may  be  sure 
that  God  waits  to  be  entreated,  and  that  your 
prayer  will  assuredly  be  answered. 

But  have  you  not  realized  at  times  that  God 
has  said  about  some  earthly  boon  you  were  crav- 
ing?— "Child,  do  not  ask  Me  more,  leave  it 
with  Me.  I  know  what  you  want,  and  what  is 
best  for  you.  Seek  first  My  kingdom,  and  all 
these  things,  literally  or  in  their  equivalent,  shall 
be  added."  It  is  well  when  we  have  been  pray- 
ing eagerly,  to  allow  God's  winnowing-fan  to 
pass  over  our  petitions,  to  winnow  away  all  that 
is  not  in  His  mind  to  give ;  so  that  only  those  de- 
sires may  remain  which  His  Spirit  has  indicted, 
and  which  He  is  therefore  pledged  to  bestow.  If 
He  does  not  give  the  exact  thing  you  ask.  He 
will  give  the  Pisgah  view  and  more  grace.  He 
will  say  to  you,  as  to  Paul,  "My  grace  is  suffi- 
cient for  thee  :  for  my  strength  is  made  perfect  in 
weakness." 


156 


The  Lord  hath  taken  you  to  he  unto  Him  a  peo- 
ple of  inheritance.  Deut.  iv.  20. 

THE  Apostle  prays  that  we  may  know  the 
riches  of  the  glory  of  God's  inheritance  in  His 
saints.  God  is  our  inheritance,  and  we  are  His. 
We  are  called  to  possess  Him  ;  He  desires  to 
possess  us.  His  nature  will  yield  crops  of  holy 
helpfulness  to  those  who  diligently  seek  Him; 
and  He  demands  crops  of  holy  love  and  devotion 
from  ours. 

What  Sovereign  Grace  is  here  ! — There  was 
nothing  in  us  to  distinguish  us  from  others.  We 
were  but  part  of  the  great  moorland  waste,  when 
He  fenced  us  in,  and  placed  us  under  His  tillage 
and  husbandry.  It  is  by  the  grace  of  God  that 
we  are  what  we  are.  "To  the  praise  of  the 
glory  of  His  grace,  wherein  He  hath  made  us 
accepted  in  the  Beloved  :  in  whom  we  have  re- 
demption through  His  blood,  the  forgiveness  of 
sins,  according  to  the  riches  of  His  grace." 

What  responsibility  f — Three  times  over  in 
this  chapter  we  are  bidden  to  take  heed  to  our- 
selves. It  is  no  small  thing  to  have  been  the  sub- 
jects of  God's  special  workmanship  ;  because  He 
is  a  jealous  God,  very  quick  to  mark  the  least 
symptom  of  declension,  and  very  searching  in 
His  dealing  and  discipline.  As  we  learn  here, 
our  God  is  a  consuming  fire,  a  jealous  God. 

What  Hope  I — We  cannot  derive  much  from 
ourselves,  however  we  toil  and  strive.  Self  can- 
not discipline  self  to  any  advantage.  The  field 
is  worked  out.  The  Divine  Husbandman  must 
put  into  us  what  He  would  take  out  of  us;  He 
needs  therefore  to  have  almost  infinite  resources. 
But  these  are  God's,  and  if  we  yield  ourselves  to 
Him,  He  can  make  all  grace  abound  toward  us, 
that  we,  always  having  all  sufficiency  in  all  things, 
may  abound  unto  every  good  work. 
157 


That  it  might  be  well  with  them. 

Deut.  V.  sg. 

HERE  is  a  sigh  from  the  Divine  heart.  It 
recalls  the  tears  of  the  Lord  Jesus  over  Jerusalem. 
The  people  insisted  on  their  willingness  to  do  all 
that  was  required  of  them,  but  they  were  destined 
to  learn  and  teach  that  the  will  may  be  present, 
without  the  power ;  just  as  a  sick  man  may  have 
the  will  to  walk  across  his  bedroom,  and  will  fall 
to  the  floor  because  he  has  no  strength. 

God's  Commandments  are  for  our  Welfare. — 
We  find  men  shrinking  from  consecration  to  com- 
plete obedience  because  they  fear  that  it  will 
mean  loss  and  pain.  There  may  be  loss  and 
pain ;  but  only  in  the  excision  of  things  which 
they  would  be  the  first  to  put  away,  if  they  un- 
derstood their  nature  and  outworking  as  God 
does.  Those  who  obey  God  most  literally  find 
the  most  blessedness  in  life,  whether. now  or 
hereafter. 

We  approve  them  with  otir  Will. — More  than 
once  the  people  insisted  that  they  would  do  as 
God  commanded.  We  are  not  so  destitute  of 
moral  perception  as  not  to  see  the  beauty  of  a  life 
wholly  yielded  to  God ;  but  let  us  not  rest  con- 
tent with  this,  or  we  may  have  yet  to  cry  with 
the  Apostle,  The  law  is  holy,  just,  and  good ; 
but  I  am  carnal,  sold  under  sin. 

God  wants  the  Heart. — He  will  not  trust  Him- 
self to  us,  so  long  as  the  heart  is  a  stranger  to 
the  indwelling  of  the  Divine  Spirit.  "Oh, 
that  there  were  such  a  heart  in  them  !  "  We 
need  to  cry  to  Him  to  create  in  us  a  clean  heart, 
to  ask  that  He  would  exchange  the  heart  of  stone 
for  one  of  flesh,  to  entreat  that  His  love  may  be 
shed  abroad  in  our  heart,  that  we  may  perfectly 
love  Him.  "  My  son,  give  Me  thy  heart !  " 
158 


TJiou  shalt  Love, 

Deut.  vi.  J. 

''LOVESTthouMe?'* 

''Who  art  Thou,  Lord,  that  I  should  love 
Thee?" 

"I  am  He  that  liveth,  but  I  died;  I  loved 
thee,  and  gave  Myself  for  thee;  I  have  made 
thee  mine  forever  in  a  bond  that  even  death  can- 
not break  ;  I  have  loved  thee  with  an  everlasting 
love ;  I  shall  never  be  at  rest  till  thou  art  with 
Me  where  I  am." 

**  Indeed  I  would  love  Thee ;  but  how  ?  " 

*'  Thou  shalt  love  Me  with  all  thine  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might." 

"This  were  impossible  unless  Thou  give  me 
the  love  Thou  requirest." 

"  This  I  will  do  for  thee,  since  love  is  of  God. 
Only  obey  these  simple  directions : 

*' I.  Abstain  from  all  wrath,  anger,  malice, 
evil  speaking,  and  all  else  that  would  grieve  my 
Holy  Spirit. 

**  2.  Yield  thyself  to  the  Spirit,  that  He  may 
produce  in  thee  His  choice  fruit — Love.  *  The 
fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  love.'  *  He  sheds  love 
abroad  in  the  heart. ' 

**  3.  Consider  my  love  to  thee,  especially 
that  I  died  for  thee  when  thou  wert  yet  in  thy 
sins.  Meditate  much  upon  the  sacrifice  I  made 
for  thee,  that  thou  mightest  have  thy  sins  blotted 
out,  and  enjoy  the  peace  which  passeth  all  under- 
standing. 

"4.  Believing  that  thou  hast  received  the 
love  of  the  Spirit,  begin  to  let  it  work  through 
thy  life  to  all  around  thee. 

"5.  If  thy  heart  is  unwilling  to  love  any, 
put  thy  will  on  My  side,  and  confidently  believe 
that  I  am  able  to  work  in  thee  to  will  and  to  do 
of  My  own  good  pleasure." 


169 


They  will  turn  away  thy  son  fro7n  following  Me. 

Deut.  vii.  4. 

THE  question  of  marriage  is  repeatedly  con- 
sidered in  these  chapters,  and  never  once  is  it 
supposed  that  the  Israelites  might  bring  a  heathen 
partner  to  the  faith  of  God's  elect ;  but  it  is  al- 
ways insisted  that  the  heathen  husband  or  wife 
will  subvert  the  faith  of  the  child  of  Abraham. 
"  Thou  shalt  not  make  marriages  with  them ;  for 
they  will  turn  away  thy  son  from  following  Me, 
that  they  may  serve  other  gods.  .  .  .  For  thou 
art  an  holy  people  unto  the  Lord  thy  God." 

The  same  law  holds  still.  You  may  suppose 
that  by  marrying  the  ungodly  and  irreligious  you 
will  be  able  to  convert  them  to  your  way  of  think- 
ing ;  but  you  must  remember  that  regeneration  is 
the  work  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  He  is  not  likely 
to  lend  His  aid  in  regeneration  whilst  you  are 
acting  in  defiance  of  His  distinct  prohibitions. 
The  command  of  Christ  is  so  clear  and  positive 
against  His  followers  entering  into  an  unequal 
yoke  with  unbelievers,  that  it  simply  leaves  no 
option  for  the  obedient.  With  the  child  of  God, 
marriage  must  be  '*  only  in  the  Lord." 

In  order  to  make  these  marriages  impossible, 
Israel  was  bidden  to  destroy  the  nations  of 
Canaan.  Separation  from  their  society  and  prac- 
tices was  thus  enforced.  The  slaughter  seemed 
ruthless  ;  but  there  was  no  other  way  of  preserv- 
ing intact  the  chosen  race,  as  a  peculiar  people 
unto  the  Lord.  Our  separation  also  must  be 
strict  even  to  the  extreme.  If  we  would  keep  our 
young  people  from  worldly  alliances,  we  must  be- 
gin with  their  amusements  and  companionships. 
There  should  be  every  endeavor  to  promote  their 
happiness  and  interests  ;  but  we  must  very  care- 
fully guard  the  young  plants  from  the  blight  of 
worldliness. 


160 


He  suffered  thee  to  hunger. 

Deut,  via.  J. 

THERE  was  a  Divine  intention,  then,  in  the 
hunger  and  thirst  and  weariness  of  the  desert 
march.  God  suffered  these  hardships  to  come  to 
the  chosen  people,  in  order  to  teach  them  de- 
pendence on  Himself.  The  daily  gift  of  manna 
was  a  perpetual  evidence  of  His  loving  thought 
and  care  for  the  pilgrim  host ;  they  came  to  learn 
that  sin  and  backsliding  could  not  alienate  His 
compassions ;  they  found  that  the  Word  of  God 
was  life.  But  none  of  these  lessons  could  have 
been  acquired  if  the  supplies  of  food  had  been 
as  regular  and  plentiful  as  in  Egypt.  They  were 
suffered  to  hunger  that  God  might  make  them 
know. 

You  are  suffered  to  hunger  for  human  love, 
that  you  may  know  what  the  love  of  Jesus  can  be 
to  His  own.  Open  your  heart  to  it,  until  it  flood 
you  as  the  sunshine  does  the  south  windows  of  a 
house. 

You  are  suffered  to  hunger  for  recognition  and 
gratitude f  that  you  may  know  what  the  "Well 
done  !  "  of  Jesus  is,  and  to  lead  you  to  look  for 
that  only.  What  do  the  words  of  men  amount 
to  unless  He  smile  ? 

You  are  suffered  to  himger  for  easier  circuni' 
stances,  for  money,  that  you  may  know  the  ten- 
der provision  which  Jesus  can  make  for  those  who 
are  wholly  dependent  on  Him.  In  the  absence 
of  all  human  help,  you  will  learn  the  sweet  taste 
of  His  manna. 

Glory  to  God,  to  God,  he  saith, 
Knowledge  by  suffering  entereth, 
And  life  is  perfected  in  death. 

These  seasons  of  hunger  are  necessary  for  the 
discipline  of  life.  But,  thank  God,  He  is  able  to 
satisfy  us  ;  and  out  of  His  riches  in  glory  in 
Christ  Jesus  He  can  and  will  fulfill  every  need  of 
ours  (Phil.  iv.  19,  r.  v.). 

161 


Not  for  thy  righteousness. 

Deut.  ix.  J. 

IT  is  well  to  be  reminded  that  we  have  no 
claim  on  God.  All  He  does  for  us  and  gives  us 
is  of  His  own  free  grace.  By  grace  have  we  been 
saved,  through  faith,  and  that  not  of  ourselves — 
it  is  the  gift  of  God.  There  certainly  was  noth- 
ing in  us  to  merit  eternal  life,  before  our  conver- 
sion ;  and  it  is  equally  sure  that  there  has  been 
nothing  since  to  merit  the  continuance  of  His 
favor.  Indeed,  as  we  remember  and  review  the 
past,  to  us  belong  shame  and  confusion  of  face 
for  our  repeated  acts  of  disobedience.  Oh  the 
depth  of  the  riches  of  His  grace  I 

If  we  were  not  saved  for  our  goodness ^  we 
shall  not  be  lost  for  the  lack  of  it. — When  we 
have  been  betrayed  into  sin,  in  the  keenness  of 
our  remorse,  the  fear  is  suggested  lest  God  should 
put  us  utterly  away.  And  there  would  be  ground 
for  the  fear  if  we  had  been  chosen  because  of  our 
righteousness. 

But  since  our  original  acceptance  with  God  did 
not  depend  on  works  of  righteousness  which  we 
had  done,  but  on  His  mercy  in  Jesus  Christ,  it 
will  not  be  undone  by  our  failures.  This  thought 
does  not  lead  to  carelessness  and  indifference,  but 
to  a  holy  fear  of  sinning. 

If  our  justification  was  apart  from  our  merits 
our  sanctification  will  be. — The  one  was  a  gift,  so 
must  the  other  be ;  the  hand  of  faith  must  re- 
ceive each  from  Christ,  and  her  voice  must  ren- 
der thanks  for  each,  as  the  unmerited  gift  of  Di- 
vine Love.  Where  is  boasting,  then  ?  It  is  shut 
out.  We  can  claim  nothing  but  emptiness  and 
need.  Handfuls  of  withered  leaves  !  The  Lord 
Jesus  is  our  only  hope,  pleading  for  us  in  heaven, 
and  living  within  our  hearts.  Of  ourselves  we 
are  nothing :  only  in  Him  are  we  complete. 
162 


He  doth  execute  the  judgment  of  the  fatherless 
and  widow.  Deut.  x.  i8. 

IN  the  gate  of  the  Eastern  town,  at  early  morn, 
the  judge  sits,  and  any  suppliant  has  a  right  to 
appeal  to  him.  The  word  Porte,  or  Gate,  as  ap- 
plied to  the  Turkish  Government,  alludes  to  this. 
So  to  the  thought  of  the  inspired  writers,  behind 
the  flimsy  vail  of  sense,  God  sat  within  the  shadow, 
"  keeping  watch  upon  His  own,"  waiting  to  an- 
swer every  plea,  and  to  avenge  the  innocent  and 
oppressed  against  high-handed  wrong. 

Individuals  may  appeal  to  that  tribunal. — 
David,  Jeremiah,  and  other  sufferers,  lodged  their 
complaints  there.  Their  cry  was  not  for  revenge, 
but  for  avengement.  There  is  a  great  difference 
between  the  two.  The  one  is  vindictive  and  re- 
taliatory; the  other  is  magisterial  and  passion- 
less. 

Whenever  an  affront  or  wrong  is  inflicted  on 
thee,  avoid  vindicating,  or  answering  for  thyself. 
Be  still  toward  man,  unless  it  be  to  induce  thy 
brother  to  repent ;  but  turn  instantly  to  thy  right- 
eous Judge,  asking  Him  to  right  the  wrong  and 
vindicate  the  right.  He  shall  bring  forth  thy 
righteousness  as  the  light,  and  thy  judgment  as 
the  noonday.  When  Christians  go  to  law,  and 
seek  to  maintain  their  cause  against  wrongdoing, 
they  miss  this.  The  weaker  you  are,  the  more 
certainly  will  the  Lord  judge  for  you. 

The  Church  may  appeal. — Our  Lord  depicted 
her  as  a  widow  pleading  to  be  avenged  of  her 
adversary.  Her  martyrs  cry  from  under  the  altar, 
*'How  long,  O  Master,  holy  and  true?  Dost 
Thou  not  judge  and  avenge  our  blood?"  To 
us  the  delay  is  long ;  but  we  know  that  He  has 
no  complicity  with  evil,  and  that  He  is  faithful. 
Give  us  the  white  robe,  that  we  may  wait  1 

163 


If  ye  shall  keep  all  this  Commandment,  then  will 
the  Lord  drive  out.  Deut.  xi.  22,  2j  (r.  v.). 

WE  wonder  why  the  Lord  does  not  drive  out 
and  subdue  our  besetting  sins.  We  do  not  pos- 
sess them,  but  they  us.  The  explanation  is  to  be 
found  in  our  lack  of  consecration.  We  do  not 
keep  all  His  commandments,  or  walk  in  all  His 
ways. 

God  cannot  deliver  us  from  besettiug  sin  unless 
we  yield  ourselves  to  Him  entirely. — It  is  only 
when  He  is  Judge,  Lawgiver,  and  King,  that  He 
can  save  us.  The  great  surgeon  will  not  under- 
take a  case  unless  he  have  its  entire  management. 
The  general  cannot  protect  a  town  until  it  has 
passed  over  its  government  entirely  into  his  hands. 
If  you  would  give  yourself  utterly  and  unreserv- 
edly to  God,  you  would  find  how  strong  He  is 
for  those  whose  heart  is  perfect  toward  Him. 

Unless  we  obey  all  His  com^nandments ;  be- 
cause they  contain  His  precise  direction  as  to 
what  we  should,  or  should  not  do.  If  you  want 
your  medical  man  to  heal  you,  you  must  abstain 
from  things  he  forbids,  and  do  those  he  pre- 
scribes. You  cannot  expect  God  to  save  you 
unless  you  utterly  and  reverently  obey  all  His 
commandments ;  that,  for  instance  of  not  having 
fellowship  with  the  world  and  its  ways. 

Unless  we  cleave  unto  Him. — There  must  be 
the  daily  walk  with  God,  the  abiding  in  Him, 
the  holy  and  unbroken  communion.  "He  that 
saith,  I  know  Him,  and  keepeth  not  His  com- 
mandments, is  a  liar,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  him. 
But  whoso  keepeth  His  word,  in  him  truly  is  the 
love  of  God  perfected."  "He  that  abideth  in 
Him  sinneth  not."  The  anointing  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  will  teach  us  this  sacred  habit  (i  John 
ii.  27).  But  entire  consecration  must  precede 
entire  deliverance. 

164 


Thou  shalt  rejoice  before  the  Lord  thy  God. 

Deut.  xii.  7,  12,  18. 

THE  presence  of  God  is  an  incentive  to  true 
joy.  We  rejoice  before  Him.  There  is  some 
mistake  in  our  religious  life  when  it  is  not  a  joy 
to  us  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  God.  He  that 
feareth,  and  rejoiceth  not,  is  not  made  perfect  in 
love.     Note  the  elements  of  true  joy. 

First.  The  puttmg  away  of  all  known  evil. — 
'*Ye  shall  surely  destroy."  The  permission  of 
evil  habits,  books,  companionships,  and  unlaw- 
ful methods  of  obtaining  money,  are  destructive 
of  peace  and  joy.  The  prodigal  son  went  away 
for  merriment ;  but  he  only  found  real  joy  when 
he  had  given  up  his  evil  ways  and  returned  to  his 
father,  a  true  penitent,  and  resolving  upon  a  bet- 
ter life. 

Second.  The  sense  of  acceptance  with  God 
through  Jesus  Christ.—''  Unto  the  place  which 
the  Lord  shall  choose  shall  ye  come."  This  re- 
fers, of  course,  to  the  brazen  altar  and  the  altar 
of  incense.  We  have  a  better  heritage  in  the 
finished  work  of  Jesus,  whose  blood  is  more 
precious  than  that  of  bulls  and  goats  and  lambs, 
and  in  whom  we  are  accepted  and  beloved. 

Third.  Feeding  on  Christ.— '*  Ye  shall  eat 
and  rejoice."  A  part  of  the  meal-offerings  and 
other  sacrifices  was  reserved  for  the  worshippers. 
We  have  an  altar  of  which  we,  too,  eat.  His 
flesh  is  meat  indeed ;  His  blood  drink  indeed. 

Fourth.  Entrance  oft  the  rest  of  our  Inheri- 
tance.— We  which  believe  do  enter  into  rest ;  not 
the  rest  of  heaven,  but  the  heavenly  places  which 
those  enjoy  who  have  learned  to  cast  every  load 
of  anxious  care  on  the  great  Burden-bearer. 
"There  remaineth  a  Sabbath  rest  for  the  people 
of  God.  .  .  .  Let  us  give  diligence  to  enter  into 
that  rest"  (Heb.  iv.  9,  11,  R.  v.). 
165 


The  Lord  your  God  proveth  you. 

Deut.  xiii.  j. 

HOW  much  happens  to  us  for  this  reason  ! 
God  proves  us — not  that  He  may  learn  aught  of 
us  which  He  did  not  know  before,  but  that  He 
may  reveal  us  to  ourselves.  We  need  to  know 
ourselves,  that  we  may  be  prompted  to  know  and 
use  His  infinite  resources,  and  that,  in  the  great 
consciousness  of  our  frailty  and  weakness,  we 
may  be  led  to  avail  ourselves  of  His  grace. 

God  proves  us  by  opportunities  of  Christian 
service. — We  think  we  are  fitted  for  some  great 
sphere,  and  chafe  because  it  is  withheld :  but 
the  reason  is  not  far  to  seek.  We  have  been 
tested  in  some  very  little  service,  as  a  class  in  the 
Sunday-school,  and  have  been  found  careless  and 
unpunctual ;  is  it  likely  that  we  shall  be  entrusted 
with  the  greater  ? 

God  proves  us  by  the  money  with  which  He  en- 
trusts us. — Money  resembles  the  counters  with 
which  children  play.  It  greatly  tests  us.  It  is 
described  as  the  unrighteous  mammon,  and  as 
not  being  our  true  riches ;  but  it  is  entrusted  to 
us  that  we  may  be  proved,  before  God  entrusts 
us  with  the  real  treasures  of  His  Kingdom.  Be 
wary  how  you  use  money ;  on  this  may  turn  the 
responsibilities  of  the  eternal  world  of  which  we 
now  know  nothing. 

God  proves  us  by  our  actions  with  regard  to 
doubtful  things. — Not  in  the  things  which  are 
clearly  right  or  wrong,  but  in  those  which  lie  in 
the  debatable  ground  of  the  twilight,  is  our  true 
character  tested.  What  you  are  in  matters  which 
must  be  viewed  in  relation  to  others  is  all-impor- 
tant, as  the  true  gauge  of  character.  By  currents 
of  opinion,  by  winds  of  doctrine,  and  by  the 
many  voices  that  are  speaking  in  the  world,  the 
Lord  your  God  proveth  you. 
166 


If  the  way  be  too  long  for  thee,  so  that  thou  art 
not  able  to  carry  it.  Deut.  xiv.  24. 

GOD'S  pitifulness  is  very  manifest  here.  If 
the  pious  Jew  found  it  impossible  to  transport  all 
his  tithes  in  kind,  he  might  change  them  into 
money,  and  bind  it  in  his  hand.  It  was  far  from 
God's  thought  that  His  service  should  become 
irksome,  or  the  soul  faint  in  performing  it.  An 
alleviation  was  suggested,  of  which  the  wor- 
shipper might  take  advantage,  if  he  would. 
This  principle  may  be  applied  in  several  direc- 
tions. We  are  not  to  make  God's  service  a  toil, 
but  esteem  it  a  delight.  "Thou  shalt  rejoice, 
and  thine  household." 

The  Lord's  Day  should  be  the  gladdest  of  the 
week  ;  full  of  love  and  joy  and  holy  song.  We 
should  carefully  guard  against  anything  ap- 
proaching to  slavish  observance :  and  be  very 
careful  that  our  children  and  servants  should  look 
forward  to  it  with  delight. 

Christian  work  should  not  be  carried  to  the 
point  of  exhaustion.  There  is  a  mistake  some- 
where if  it  so  breaks  down  the  health  and  spirits 
that  the  worker  is  not  able  to  carry  it.  At  such  a 
time,  we  need  to  avail  ourselves  of  any  assistance 
or  alleviation  that  may  be  possible. 

Acts  of  devotion,  also,  should  be  for  our  enjoy- 
ment and  refreshment.  It  seems  sometimes  as 
though  God's  children  relied  more  on  length  than 
strength,  in  their  prayers.  They  are  not  at  ease 
or  natural  in  the  Father's  presence.  The  forms 
of  their  devotion  are  so  numerous  and  prolonged, 
that  they  are  not  able  to  carry  them.  By  all 
means  maintain  the  salutary  form,  but  not  for 
form's  sake.  Let  the  joy  of  the  Lord,  taking 
pleasure  in  His  presence  and  in  communion  with 
Him,  be  always  the  first  thought. 
167 


Thy  bondman  forever. 

Deut.  XV.  jy  (r.  v.,  marg.). 

THIS  is  what  we  desire  to  be  to  Christ.  We 
have  forfeited  our  own  natural  inheritance,  and 
have  taken  refuge  in  His  house.  For  six  years 
we  have  enjoyed  all  that  Jesus  could  do  to  make 
us  happy ;  has  not  the  time  come  when  we  should 
say  to  Him,  "We  do  not  want  to  go  out  from 
Thee  again,  but  to  remain  with  Thee  forever  "  ? 
Paul  delighted  to  call  himself  *'  a  bond-servant 
of  Jesus  Christ"  (Rom.  i.  i;  Gal.  i.  lo;  Phil, 
i.  I,  R.  V. ;  etc.). 

There  are  two  stages,  so  to  speak,  in  our  deal- 
ings with  Him.  First,  we  come  driven  by  fear ; 
the  produce  of  our  own  efforts  has  failed ;  we 
have  no  other  resort.  Like  the  bird  fleeing  from 
the  hawk,  we  have  made  for  His  breast ;  like 
the  sailor  driven  by  the  tempest,  we  have  taken 
the  first  harbor  that  offered.  But  when  we  have 
tested  the  blessed  Master,  and  found  Him  so 
sweet  and  strong,  we  elect  to  remain  with  Him, 
not  for  His  gifts  or  even  His  salvation,  but  for 
Himself.  We  do  not  wish  to  go  out  free;  we 
love  Him  so  dearly  that  we  would  rather  go  any- 
where with  Him  than  remain  without  Him. 

This  resolve  of  ours  is  ratified  by  Him.  He 
nails  our  ear  to  His  cross.  Through  the  blood 
of  self-sacrifice,  and  self-surrender  ;  through  our 
deeper  appreciation  of  the  meaning  of  His  cross, 
as  separating  us  from  the  old  selfish  life ;  through 
our  identification  with  Him  in  death  and  resur- 
rection ;  through  our  sacrifice  of  all  that  would 
hinder  us — we  come  into  deeper  and  closer  one- 
ness with  Himself.  As  the  Father  bored  through 
His  ear,  in  accepting  His  glad  delight  to  do  His 
will,  so  does  Jesus  make  real  and  permanent  the 
consecration  we  lay  at  His  feet  (See  Psa.  xl.  6, 
7). 


168 


Thou  shalt  remember  that  thou  wast  a  bondman. 

Deut.  xvi.  12. 

THIS  gave  the  touch  of  gentle  tenderness  to 
Israel's  treatment  of  the  stranger,  the  fatherless, 
and  the  widow.  They  knew  what  loneliness  and 
desperate  suffering  were  ;  and  from  their  own  ex- 
perience could  speak  to  the  heart.  Without  tender- 
ness and  sympathy,  what  are  our  gifts  to  the  poor 
worth?  It  is  as  important  to  give  graciously  and 
kindly  as  to  give  at  all.  None  are  so  sensitive 
as  sufferers,  whether  in  mind,  body,  or  circum- 
stance ;  they  are  quick  to  notice  the  slightest 
roughness  or  harshness  in  our  manner  of  bestow- 
ing relief;  they  would  prefer  a  pittance  given 
with  tender  sympathy  to  a  larger  gift  flung  at 
them  grudgingly.  But  what  can  give  this 
thoughtful  sympathetic  manner  like  the  memory 
of  our  own  sufferings,  when  we  were  bondmen 
in  Egypt ! 

It  may  be  that  God  is  passing  thee  through 
some  fiery  ordeal,  to  teach  thee  and  fit  thee  to 
be  His  almoner,  touching  and  soothing  as  His 
outstretched  hand  of  pity.  Soon  thy  present 
sorrow  shall  be  but  a  memory ;  but  thou  wilt  be 
called  to  minister  to  the  fatherless,  the  widow, 
the  stranger.  Always  say  in  thine  heart,  God  is 
passing  me  through  this  sorrow,  and  comforting 
me,  and  delivering  me,  that  I  may  be  able  to 
comfort  those  who  are  in  any  trouble  with  the 
very  accent,  caress,  and  tender  word  which  He 
hath  spoken  to  me.  "  Blessed  be  the  God  of  all 
comfort;  who  comforteth  us  in  all  our  affliction, 
that  we  may  be  able  to  comfort  them  that  are  in 
any  affliction  through  the  comfort  wherewith  we 
ourselves  are  comforted  of  God." 

In  heaven  itself  we  shall  never  quite  forget  that 
we  were  bondmen  once,  but  were  redeemed  with 
the  precious  blood  of  Christ.  This  will  give  a 
new  meaning  to  the  song  of  adoring  gladness. 

169 


That  his  heart  be  not  lifted  up. 

Deut.  xvii.  20. 

BEWARE  of  pride!  By  that  sin  fell  the 
angels.  If  they  fell  by  it,  how  much  more  may 
we  !  When  a  man  is  raised  from  some  lowly 
sphere  to  a  position  of  commanding  influence,  he 
is  greatly  tempted  to  arrogance  and  pride.  The 
adulation  which  he  receives  on  every  hand  makes 
it  all  the  harder  to  live  humbly  and  unassumingly. 
But  when  once  pride  enters,  it  seems  to  close  the 
heart  to  God.  The  proud  man  multiplies  to 
himself  chariots  and  horses,  with  the  intention  of 
making  his  position  more  secure ;  but  he  shuts 
out  the  help  of  the  Most  High.  How  necessary, 
therefore,  that  our  hearts  should  not  be  lifted 
up  ! 

The  corrective  suggested  here  is  meditation  on 
the  Word  of  God.  The  king  was  to  write  out  a 
copy  with  his  own  hand,  and  meditate  on  it  all 
the  days  of  his  life ;  this  would  keep  him  in  the 
lowlands  of  humility.  The  Bible  is  so  true  in 
its  analysis  of  the  heart ;  like  a  mirror  it  reveals 
a  man  to  himself.  It  gives  such  exalted  views  of 
the  greatness  and  holiness  of  God,  compared 
with  which  the  greatest  human  state  is  like  the 
royalties  of  an  ant-heap.  It  assures  us  that  we 
must  receive  everything  as  the  gift  of  God's 
grace.  *' Where  is  boasting  then?  It  is  ex- 
cluded. By  what  law — of  works?"  No,  but 
by  the  grace  of  God  which  bringeth  salvation, 
apart  from  merit. 

May  God  make  us  humble,  with  a  transparent 
humility,  which  is  not  conscious  that  it  is  hum- 
ble, like  the  utter  unconsciousness  of  the  little 
child,  who  does  not  bend  back  on  herself.  Still 
and  quiet  your  soul,  dear  child  of  God,  as  a  child 
weaned  from  its  mother;  and  be  sure  to  feed 
humility  on  the  sincere  milk  of  the  Word. 


170 


With  all  the  desire  of  his  soul. 

Dent,  xviii.  6  (R.  V.). 

HERE  is  the  inspiration  of  a  noble  purpose 
taking  a  man  out  from  his  quiet  life  in  some  dis- 
tant village,  far  removed  from  the  great  sacred 
city,  and  plunging  him  suddenly  into  the  very 
midst  of  its  holy  engagements  and  services. 
Other  men  were  happy  there.  What  more  did 
they  want  than  the  quiet  routine  of  buying  and 
selling  cattle,  tending  vines,  and  cultivating  their 
fields?  But  for  this  man  these  could  not  suffice. 
There  was  a  light  that  excelled  beckoning  him 
on ;  a  voice,  which  only  he  could  hear,  calling 
to  him.  He  was  not  asked  to  come ;  his  name 
did  not  appear  on  the  rota  of  the  Temple  serv- 
itors ;  the  great  Temple  might  seem  perfectly 
able  to  dispense  with  him ;  yet  because  with  all 
the  desire  of  his  soul  he  longed  to  be  one  of  the 
Temple  Levites,  he  might  minister  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  as  the  others  did;  and  be  supported, 
as  they,  from  the  Temple  funds. 

It  is  a  blessed  thing  to  feel  an  impulse  like  this. 
It  may  prompt  to  home  or  foreign  missions,  to 
some  enterprise  of  self-denying  ministry  to  the 
helpless  and  sad,  to  service  for  God  or  man.  It 
may  come  on  you  like  a  strong  current,  fresh  from 
the  ocean,  sweeping  up  into  some  quiet  river  or 
harbor  basin,  and  lifting  the  ponderous  barges. 
But  when  it  comes,  be  true  to  it,  nurse  it,  rever- 
ence it,  thank  God  for  it,  trust  and  follow  it 
where  it  leads.  You  will  find  a  niche  awaiting 
you,  and  the  portions  by  which  life  will  be 
nourished  and  maintained ;  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
will  not  fail  to  be  your  Guide  and  Teacher,  lead- 
ing you  into  all  the  truth.  Until  it  come,  wait 
upon  God  in  prayer;  commune  with  Him  in  the 
Holy  of  Holies;  and  spend  much  time  in  read- 
ing and  meditating  upon  His  Holy  Word. 


171 


Then  shall  ye  do  unto  him  as  he  had  thought  to 
do  to  his  brother.  Deut.  xix.  ig. 

THERE  is  a  Nemesis  in  wrongdoing ;  evil  comes 
home  to  roost ;  what  we  meditate  against  others 
returns  on  ourselves.  They  that  take  the  sword 
shall  perish  with  the  sword.  The  publican  who 
sells  drink  to  debauch  sons  and  fathers,  lives  to 
see  the  drink  curse  his  own  family.  The  man 
who  is  treacherous  to  women  lives  to  see  his  own 
sons  fall  beneath  their  wiles.  Haman  erects  a 
gallows  for  Mordecai,  but  is  hanged  upon  it  him- 
self. Adoni-bezek  cut  off  the  toes  and  thumbs  of 
captive  princes,  and  confessed  the  rightness  of  the 
fate  which  overtook  himself.  England  imposes 
opium  on  China,  but  presently  discovers  that  it 
is  eating  out  the  heart  of  her  own  subjects  in 
India  and  Burmah.  ''Whoso  causeth  the  up- 
right to  go  astray  in  an  evil  way,  he  shall  fall 
himself  into  his  own  pit." 

And  why  is  all  this  ?  Because  God  sits  behind 
the  slight  curtain  of  the  present,  judging  the  acts 
of  men.  It  is  not  necessary  to  wait  for  the  con- 
clusion of  the  present  age  to  see  the  sentence  in- 
flicted. Now  the  Son  of  Man  sits  on  the  throne 
of  His  glory,  and  before  Him  the  nations  are 
gathered.  Nineveh,  Babylon,  Capernaum,  Tyre, 
Pompeii,  the  power  of  Spain,  the  Empire  of  Na- 
poleon, have  already  been  condemned  to  Hades,  i 
Now  the  judgment  is  set,  now  the  books  are 
opened,  now  the  *'  Come,  ye  blessed,"  and  "  De- 
part, ye  cursed,"  are  being  uttered.  God  has  so 
made  the  moral  world  that  the  seed  of  punish- 
ment lies  hid  in  each  unkind  word,  each  un- 
christian act ;  and  it  is  only  necessary  to  give 
time  enough  to  show  that  the  man  who  has  sown 
to  his  neighbor's  hurt  will  reap  that  hurt  in  his 
own  life.  To  every  man  will  be  rendered  accord- 
ing to  his  deeds,  even  in  this  life. 


172 


When  ye  draw  nigh  unto  the  battle ,  the  priest 
shall  approach.  Deut.  xx.  2. 

WHEN  Abraham  returned  from  the  slaughter 
of  the  kings,  the  priest  of  the  Most  High  ap- 
peared to  welcome  him,  and  to  prepare  him  for 
the  still  more  subtle  encounter  which  awaited 
him  with  the  king  of  Sodom.  As  Abraham  drew 
nigh  to  that  battle  the  priest  approached. 

Whenever  a  battle  is  imminent,  look  out  for  the 
Priest. — Do  not  go  to  the  war  at  your  own  charges, 
you  cannot  stand  against  the  mighty  power  of 
your  arch-adversary.  Look  around,  and  see  the 
Priest  stand.  What  Priest?  The  Apostle  and 
High  Priest  of  your  confession.  He  will  offer 
prayer  for  you,  and  anoint  your  shield  with  the 
precious  oil,  and  put  His  hand  upon  your  hand 
as  you  feebly  draw  the  bow. 

'*  What  makes  you  so  bold,  my  lad  ?  "  the  cap- 
tain asked  of  a  stripling  as  he  went  into  the  fight. 
And  the  answer  came  quickly,  "  My  mother  put 
her  hands  on  my  head  and  blessed  me  ere  I  left 
our  home." 

Whenever  the  Priest  has  been  near,  anticipate 
a  battle. — The  best  hours  come  to  prepare  us  for 
the  worst.  The  dove  descends  that  we  may  be 
able  to  stand  for  forty  days  against  the  devil. 
Do  not  be  surprised  at  this.  And  whenever  some 
experience  of  unusual  radiance  and  helpfulness 
has  visited  you,  say  to  yourself,  "This  is  God's 
sweet  way  of  preparing  me  against  coming  trial. 
Let  me  walk  warily,  for  danger  is  near.  The 
Priest  has  been  with  me  ;  I  am  drawing  nigh  to  the 
battle.  I  know  not  what  lies  before  me  :  but  He 
is  acquainted  with  the  difficulties  I  have  to  face 
and  the  fierceness  of  the  adversary  I  have  to  en- 
counter.    He  alone  can  equip  me  for  the  fight." 


173 


He  that  is  hanged  is  accursed  of  God. 

Deut.  xxi.  23  (R.  v.). 

THIS  law  on  the  Jewish  statute-book  hastened 
the  awful  tragedy  of  Calvary.  No  body  must  be 
left  to  rot  on  the  cross  on  which  it  had  been  im- 
paled. The  corpse  of  the  malefactor  must  be 
taken  down  at  nightfall.  But  how  little  did  the 
Pharisees  and  Scribes  realize  that  the  remainder 
of  this  verse  had  so  pertinent  a  reference,  and 
was  having  so  remarkable  a  fulfillment.  The 
Apostle  quotes  this  verse  as  giving  the  inner 
rationale  or  meaning  of  the  death  of  the  blessed 
Lord  (Gal.  iii.  13).  "  Cursed  is  every  one  that 
hangeth  on  a  tree."  On  Jesus  fell  the  redupli- 
cated curses,  that  were  deserved  by  the  race,  and 
by  each. 

The  curse  of  the  broken  law. — **  Cursed  is 
every  one  that  continueth  not  in  all  things  writ- 
ten in  the  Book  of  the  Law."  None  had  kept, 
all  had  broken  that  law.  None  was  righteous, 
no,  not  one.  Man's  lot  was  cast  under  Mount 
Ebal.  The  race  was  guilty  and  silent  before  the 
bar  of  infinite  justice.  But  Jesus,  by  virtue  of 
His  relationship  with  the  entire  human  family, 
was  able  to  stand  before  God  charged  with  that 
sin,  bearing  that  curse,  and  put  them  away  for- 
ever. There  is  no  barrier,  therefore,  now  to  the 
outflow  of  God's  free  grace. 

The  curse  due  to  individual  transgression. — 
The  whole  race  had  broken  away  from  God,  and 
was  under  the  curse;  so  that  each  of  us  shared  in 
the  solemn  accountability  to  God,  for  the  whole 
and  for  our  part.  But  He  became  sin  for  us ; 
cursed,  that  we  might  be  blessed;  cast  out,  that 
we  might  be  forever  welcomed  ;  naked,  that  we 
might  be  clothed  ;  hungry,  that  we  might  feed 
on  His  flesh  ;  poor,  that  we  might  be  enriched  ; 
dying,  that  we  might  live  beyond  the  range  of 
the  curse  forevcrmore. 

174 


Thou  shalt  make  a  battlement  for  thy  roof. 

Dent.  xxii.  8. 

THE  householder  was  not  to  be  content  with 
what  would  be  safe  for  himself;  he  must  see  to  it 
that  the  undefended  roof  of  his  house  should  not 
be  a  source  of  danger  to  little  children,  the  weak, 
or  the  careless.  He  might  be  able  to  walk  on  the 
roof  of  his  house  with  so  sure  a  foot  as  not  to 
need  the  parapet  or  trellis-work,  warning  him 
from  the  edge ;  but  what  he  could  do  might  be 
impossible  for  feet  less  sure  than  his.  Hence  the 
need  of  the  battlement  !  Each  new  house  must 
have  its  battlement  around  the  margin  of  its  roof. 

This  should  be  the  law  for  each  new  home. — 
Wherever  a  household  is  constituted,  battlements 
should  be  built  to  protect,  as  far  as  possible,  the 
weak  and  tempted.  The  pace  of  the  household 
should  be  that  of  the  feeblest  of  its  members. 
You  are  careful  to  have  the  balustrade  and  the 
little  swing  gate,  not  that  the  grown-up  require 
them,  but  for  the  protection  and  safety  of  young 
and  feeble  life.  Similarly  build  the  battlement 
of  total  abstinence,  of  the  discountenance  of 
worldly  amusement,  of  the  habit  of  family  wor- 
ship. Guard  against  exposure  to  needless  temp- 
tation, and  occasions  for  falling. 

This  should  be  the  law  in  older  households. — 
It  becomes  the  master  of  the  home  sometimes  to 
go  around  his  household,  to  study  his  own  char- 
acter, to  inspect  the  condition  of  the  battlements. 
Is  there  laxity,  inconsistency,  need  of  precaution  ? 
Let  us  search  our  hearts  and  lives,  our  habits,  and 
the  ordering  of  our  homes,  that  the  battlements 
may  be  strengthened  where  they  are  weak,  or 
erected  where  they  are  wanting.  "Look  not 
every  man  on  his  own  things,  but  every  man  also 
on  the  things  of  others." 
175 


The  Lord  thy  God  walketh  in  the  midst  of  thy 
camp  to  deliver  thee.  Deut.  xxiii.  14. 

AT  all  times  Israel  needed  to  keep  from  evil, 
but  especially  when  her  embattled  hosts  went 
forth  to  war;  for  in  the  conception  of  her 
prophets  and  saints  her  battles  were  not  to  be 
fought  or  won  by  herself.  The  Lord  God  of 
hosts  was  there.  It  was  a  joint  campaign.  This 
was  specially  revealed  to  Joshua,  when  he  beheld 
the  captain  of  the  Lord's  host,  with  a  drawn 
sword,  beside  him.  So,  Christian  soul,  remem- 
ber, in  thy  war  against  the  evil  of  the  world,  and 
the  solicitations  of  thine  own  wicked  heart,  that 
the  battle  is  not  yours,  but  God's.  He  is  in  the 
midst  of  thee ;  thou  needest  not  be  moved  !  He 
has  sworn  to  deliver  thee  by  His  own  right  hand, 
and  by  His  holy  arm,  and  to  give  up  thine  ene- 
mies before  thee. 

There  was  one  condition,  however,  on  which 
the  presence  of  God  amongst  His  people  was 
possible — the  camp  must  be  holy.  No  unclean 
thing  might  be  seen  in  any  of  its  borders.  The 
vail  of  mother-earth  must  cover  all  impurity. 
Thus,  as  God  went  up  and  down  the  long  avenues 
of  the  tents,  He  would  see  nothing  to  offend  His 
gaze  and  make  Him  turn  away.  How  deep  a 
lesson  !  God  is  ever  patrolling  the  avenues  of 
our  life.  The  most  secret  processes  of  our  daily 
existence,  our  innermost  relationships,  the 
thoughts  and  intents  of  our  heart,  are  all  mani- 
fest to  Him.  There  must  be  nothing  to  make 
Him  turn  away  in  holy  abhorrence,  else  we  can- 
not count  on  Him  to  deliver  us,  to  give  up  our 
enemies  before  us. 

"  Search  me,  O  God,  and  know  my  heart : 
Try  me,  and  know  my  thoughts  : 
And  see  if  there  be  any  wicked  way  in  me, 
And  lead  me  in  the  way  everlasting." 

176 


The  man  to  loJiom  thou  dost  lend  shall  bring  forth 
the  pledge  without  unto  thee.  Dent.  xxiv.  ii  (r.  v.). 

WHAT  courtesy  and  respect  for  the  feelings  of 
another  prompted  this  injunction  !  The  poor 
man  needs  a  loan,  and  for  this  purpose  goes  to 
his  rich  neighbor.  It  would  be  possible  for  the 
latter,  in  the  pride  of  his  purse  and  position,  to 
go  ruthlessly  across  the  threshold  of  the  poor 
man's  house,  look  contemptuously  around  its 
penury,  and  lay  his  hand  with  indelicate  haste  on 
the  treasures  of  the  poor  man's  family  life.  This, 
which  had  been  dear  to  his  father !  That,  as- 
sociated with  happier,  better  days  !  Such  con- 
duct might  not  be,  said  the  divine  precept.  If 
the  poor  man  asked  a  loan,  he  must  choose  his 
own  pledge,  and  fetch  it  from  his  house  with  his 
own  hand;  it  must  be  his  act. 

God  respects  the  nature  with  which  He  has  en- 
dowed us. — He  will  not  force  an  entrance  on  any 
man.  Though  He  made  us,  He  waits  for  us  to 
give  Him  right  of  entrance.  He  stands  at  the 
door  and  knocks.  He  asks  for  our  consecration, 
that  we  should  give  Him  our  whole  being  in 
pledge,  and  in  return  for  the  loan  of  infinite 
grace ;  but  He  will  not  take  till  we  give,  or 
count  on  aught  belonging  to  us  as  His  property, 
until  we  have  surrendered  spirit,  soul,  and  body, 
at  His  invitation. 

God  expects  us  to  respect  the  7iature  of  others. 
— Let  us  reverence  that  wonderful  soul-life  which 
is  the  perquisite  of  each  individual.  We  have  no 
right  to  break  in  with  the  mailed  foot  of  the  poli- 
tician, or  the  furtive  tread  of  the  priest.  The 
father-confessor  has  no  right  to  stand  within  the 
sacred  precincts  of  conscience.  No  man  has  a 
claim  on  his  brother  save  that  which  love  sup- 
plies. If  we  have  partaken  of  the  grace  of  God, 
we  must  be  gracious  to  our  fellows. 
177 


Thou  shalt  not  muzzle  the  ox  7vhen  he  treadeth 
out  the  corn.  Dent.  xxv.  4. 

*'GOD  taketh  care  of  oxen,"  is  Paul's  com- 
ment on  this  text;  and  so  God  did.  These 
pages  are  filled  with  tokens  of  His  thought — for 
the  ass  that  might  not  be  overtaxed  by  being  set 
to  plough  with  an  ox;  for  the  ass  or  ox  which 
were  to  be  helped  up  if  they  had  sunk  on  the 
road  overpowered  with  their  burdens ;  or  for 
the  bird  sitting  on  her  nest.  Here  the  ox,  as  it 
went  around  the  monotonous  tread  of  the  mill, 
was  to  be  allowed  to  take  a  chance  mouthful  of 
corn. 

The  care  for  dumb  creatures  is  part  of  our  re- 
ligious duty.  It  is  one  of  the  elements  of  religion 
to  think  for  the  dumb  creatures,  who  are  not  able 
to  speak  for  themselves,  but  suffer  so  patiently 
the  accumulated  wrongs  heaped  on  them  by  man. 
**  A  righteous  man  regardeth  the  life  of  his  beast : 
but  the  tender  mercies  of  the  wicked  are  cruel." 
Oh,  when  will  the  travail  of  creation  cease ! 
Man's  sin  has  indeed  worked  woe  for  the  lower 
orders  of  creation. 

The  Apostle  used  this  injunction  to  remind  his 
converts  of  the  necessity  of  caring  for  their  spir- 
itual teachers.  Some  are  called  to  plough,  others 
to  thresh  ;  but  "  he  that  plougheth  should  plough 
in  hope;  and  he  that  thresheth  in  hope  should 
be  partaker  of  his  hope  "  (i  Cor.  ix.  10).  They 
that  serve  the  altar  should  live  by  the  altar ;  and 
those  who  proclaim  the  Gospel  should  live  of  the 
Gospel. 

But  there  is  sweet  encouragement  here  for  those 
who  are  anxious  about  their  daily  bread.  God 
takes  care  for  oxen  ;  will  He  not  for  you  ?  Shall 
the  oxen  browse  on  the  wolds  and  pasture-lands, 
and  be  nourished  to  fatness,  and  will  He  leave  to 
starve  the  soul  that  really  trusts  and  serves  Him  ? 


178 


Thou  shalt  rejoice  hi  all  the  good  the  Lord  thy 
God  hath  given  unto  thee.     Deut.  xxvi.  u  (r.  v.). 

DO  not  be  afraid  of  joy  !  There  are  some 
who  only  sip  of  the  sweet  draughts  which  God 
puts  to  their  lips,  afraid  of  drinking  long  and 
deeply.  When  good  things  come  into  their  lives, 
they  are  always  thinking  of  some  bitter  make- 
weight, possibly  some  impending  trouble.  This 
is  a  mistake.  We  must  be  prepared  to  learn  the 
lessons  of  dark  hours  when  God  sends  them ;  but 
we  need  not  hesitate  to  learn  those  of  bright  and 
happy  ones,  when  they,  too,  are  meted  out  to  us. 
As  we  give  ourselves  up  to  sorrow,  we  should 
give  ourselves  up  to  joy  !  As  the  soul  descends 
into  the  grave,  it  should  have  great  joy  in  its  res- 
urrection and  ascension  !  If  the  soul-planet  must 
travel  to  a  wintry  distance,  let  us  hail  those  hal- 
cyon hours  when  it  returns  to  stand  in  the  sum- 
mer spheres  of  joy  !  In  the  life  of  consecration 
our  joy  is  considerably  enhanced  by  sharing  it 
with  our  Lord.  Just  as  our  burden  of  care  is 
lightened  by  rolling  it  upon  Him,  in  the  same 
proportion  our  joy  will  be  increased  when  He  is 
permitted  to  partake  of  it. 

We  cannot  always  be  on  the  strain.  It  is  not 
possible  to  live  on  one  side  of  our  nature  without 
impairing  the  health  of  all.  David  must  bring 
his  harp,  and  play  in  the  presence  of  the  soul, 
when  its  fits  of  depression  return.  There  is  neces- 
sity that  we  should  cultivate  tracks  of  our  soul 
that  lie  toward  a  southern  aspect,  filling  them 
with  flowers,  and  fruits,  and  beehives,  and  things 
that  children  love. 

Open  your  heart  to  joy,  when  it  comes  in  the 
morning  with  jocund  voice ;  by  the  back-door 
weeping  will  steal  away.  She  only  came  to  so- 
journ for  a  night. 


179 


Thou  shalt  build  the  altar  of  the  Lord  thy  God 
of  unhewn  stones.  Deut.  xxvH.  6. 

THE  obvious  intention  of  this  precept  was  to 
prevent  idolatry,  lest  the  people  should  think 
more  of  the  altar  than  of  Jehovah  who  was  wor- 
shipped there.  Beware  of  anything  that  would 
divert  men's  thoughts  from  God. 

Build  your  Addresses  oftinhewn  stones. — When 
speaking  to  men,  Paul  determined  to  erect  struc- 
tures of  unhewn  stones,  eschewing  worldly  wis- 
dom, that  the  power  of  God  might  burn  more 
conspicuously  on  the  altar  of  his  words.  He 
knew  that  his  speech  and  his  preaching  could 
never  be  in  persuasive  words  of  human  wisdom, 
and  it  was  his  fixed  determination  to  know  noth- 
ing among  men  but  Jesus  Christ  and  Him  cruci- 
fied. If  you  spend  too  much  time  in  cutting  the 
stones  of  your  address,  your  hearers  will  prob- 
ably be  more  occupied  with  their  artistic  grace 
than  with  the  Divine  fire  that  should  burn  upon 
them. 

Build  your  Prayers  of  unhewn  stones. — The 
expressions  of  some  men  in  prayer  are  so  exquis- 
itely chiselled  that  you  keep  wondering  what  they 
will  say  next,  and  how.  Their  prayers  stand  as 
beautiful  altars  on  which  there  is  no  fire.  Oh 
for  the  strong  cryings  and  tears  of  a  Spirit-taught 
man,  expressing  the  real  need  of  his  nature,  rather 
than  the  exquisite  beauty  of  an  oration  to  God  ! 

Build  your  Inner  Life  of  unhewn  stories. — Do 
not  keep  looking  to  see  how  you  are  performing 
the  acts  of  consecration,  confession,  devotion. 
The  least  you  think  of  these  the  better,  that  your 
entire  thought  may  be  concentrated  on  the  great 
God  and  His  Presence.  There  must  be  sincerity 
in  our  acts  of  consecration.  One  inch  of  rising 
flame  is  better  than  yards  of  chiselled  stone  ! 
180 


Because  tJiou  servedest  not  the  Lord  with  joyful- 
ness  and  with  gladness.  Dent.  xxvUi.  47,  48. 

WE  must  serve.  It  is  our  nature.  Our  Lord 
never  suggested  a  third  course  as  an  alternative 
to  the  service  of  God  or  mammon,  as  though  it 
were  possible  to  escape  all  service  whatsoever. 
We  either  yield  ourselves  servants  of  righteous- 
ness unto  holiness,  or  of  iniquity  unto  iniquity; 
and  to  whom  we  yield  ourselves  servants  to  obey, 
his  we  are. 

It  is  a  solemn  thought :  if  we  are  not  serving 
God  with  joyfulness  and  gladness  of  heart,  we 
are  serving  things  which  are  our  worst  enemies. 
A  man  has  no  worse  foe  than  himself  when  he 
lives  to  serve  his  own  whims  and  desires.  These 
habits,  and  appetites,  and  fashions,  are  luxurious 
and  pleasant  just  now ;  but  their  silken  cords  will 
become  iron  bands. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  we  would  be  secure  from 
the  service  which  hurts  us,  let  us  give  ourselves 
to  the  Lord  to  serve  Him  with  joyfulness  and 
gladness.  Do  you  ask  the  source  of  these  ?  Re- 
member, He  will  put  gladness  into  thy  heart; 
joy  is  the  fruit  of  His  Spirit.  When  thou  art  in 
a  healthy  state,  joyfulness  and  gladness  rise  spon- 
taneously in  the  soul,  as  music  from  song-birds. 
When  the  sacrifice  begins,  then  will  the  song  of 
the  Lord  begin. 

The  heart  finds  the  well-spring  of  perennial 
blessedness  when  it  has  yielded  itself  absolutely 
and  unconditionally  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  If 
He  is  Alpha  and  Omega ;  if  our  faith,  however 
feebly,  looks  up  to  Him ;  if  we  press  on  to  know 
Him,  the  power  of  His  resurrection,  and  the  fel- 
lowship of  His  sufferings;  if  we  count  all  things 
but  loss  for  the  excellency  of  His  knowledge — 
we  may  possess  ourselves  in  peace  amid  the  mys- 
teries of  life,  and  we  shall  have  learned  the  blessed 
secret  of  serving  the  Lord  "  with  joyfulness  and 
with  gladness  of  heart. ' ' 
181 


/  shall  have  peace y  though  I  walk  in  the  stubborn- 
ness of  mine  heart.      Deut.  xxix.  79  (r.  v.,  ?narg.). 

SO  man's  foolish  heart  reasons.  He  hears  the 
curse  pronounced  against  sin  ;  he  knows  that  the 
man  who  turns  from  God  is  threatened  with  gall 
and  wormwood,  and  yet  he  persists  in  his  evil 
ways,  secretly  blessing  himself,  and  laying  the 
flattering  unction  to  his  heart  that  he  at  least  will 
come  off  scot  free.  Such  an  one  is  an  abomina- 
tion to  the  Lord,  and  shall  not  escape:  "The 
Lord  will  not  pardon  him,  but  His  anger  shall 
smoke  against  him."  It  is  still  true  of  the  wicked, 
"that  every  imagination  of  the  thoughts  of  his 
heart  is  only  evil  continually." 

The  only  way  to  peace  is  by  abjuring  the  stub- 
bornness which  sets  up  its  own  will  and  way 
against  God's.  Is  not  this  the  secret  of  the  un- 
rest of  your  soul — that  you  have  never  perfectly 
yielded  to  God?  You  know  that  if  others  did 
as  you  do,  and  cherished  the  dispositions  that 
you  permit,  you  would  instantly  condemn  them, 
and  assure  them  of  the  incompatibility  of  soul- 
rest  and  such  things  as  these ;  but  you  bless  your- 
self, and  say,  "  I  shall  have  peace,  though  I  walk 
in  the  stubbornness  of  my  heart." 

Ask  God  to  take  the  stubbornness  out  of  you, 
to  rid  you  of  your  hard  heart,  to  bring  you  into 
loving,  gentle  subordination  to  Himself;  to  fulfill 
His  promise  in  your  experience,  "  I  will  take  the 
stony  heart  out  of  their  flesh,  and  will  give  them 
a  heart  of  flesh."  Return  and  submit.  Take 
His  yoke  and  learn  of  Him.  Bow  down  at  His 
feet.  Let  every  step  of  your  daily  walk  be  taken 
in  the  track  of  His  holy  will.  So  shall  you  find 
rest  unto  your  soul ;  and  the  peace  of  God,  which 
passeth  all  understanding,  shall  guard  your  hearts 
and  your  thoughts  in  Christ  Jesus  "  (Phil.  iv.  7, 
R.  v.). 


182 


The  Lord  thy  God  will  circumcise  thine  heart,  to 
love  the  Lord  thy  God.  Deut.  xxx.  6. 

CIRCUMCISION  is  the  sign  of  separation.  It 
was  enjoined  on  Abraham  and  his  children  that 
they  miglit  be  God's  pecuHar  people,  chosen  from 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Similarly,  the  cir- 
^cumcision  of  Christ,  which  is  made  without 
hands,  of  which  the  Apostle  speaks,  is  a  putting 
off,  a  separation  from  the  sins  of  the  flesh,  a  par- 
ticipation in  the  grave  and  burial  of  Christ  (Col. 
ii.  12). 

We  must  be  separated  from  the  spirit  and  tem- 
per of  the  world.  Between  us  and  its  sins,  am- 
bitions, methods,  there  must  be  not  only  an  out- 
ward, but  a  heart  severance.  We  were  separated 
in  the  purpose  of  God  when  Jesus  was  cast  with- 
out the  camp  to  die.  But  we  must  be  separate 
in  our  personal  behavior.  Wouldst  thou  have 
this  ?  Then  claim  that  this  promise  should  be 
fulfilled,  and  ask  that  God  would  circumcise 
thine  heart — the  seat  of  thine  affections,  the 
hearth  of  thy  soul-life. 

Then  thou  wilt  love  the  Lord  with  all  thine 
heart.  This  is  why  we  love  God  so  little.  The 
force  of  our  love  is  spread  over  too  wide  a  sur- 
face— it  is  like  the  river  Orinoco,  which  is  lost  in 
swamps  as  it  approaches  the  sea.  If  only  we  were 
really  separated  from  all  that  is  alien  to  God,  and 
given  up  to  Him  wholly,  we  should  find  all  the 
capacity  of  our  hearts  becoming  filled  with  His 
love.  We  should  love  all  things  and  people  with 
a  tenderness  and  glow  which  were  steeped  in 
colors  obtained  from  His. 

You  will  never  succeed  in  overthrowing  the 
strongholds  of  Satan,  Christian  worker,  till  God 
has  taken  away  your  self-reliance,  and  has 
brought  you  down  into  the  dust  of  death  :  then, 
when  the  sentence  of  death  is  in  yourself  you 
will  begin  to  experience  the  energy  of  the  Divine 
life,  the  glory  of  the  Divine  victory. 
183 


Thou  shalt  cause  them  to  inherit  it. 

Deut.  xxxi.  y. 

JOSHUA  is  ever  the  type  of  our  blessed  Jesus. 
Joshua  not  only  won  Canaan  for  his  people  by 
his  faith  in  the  gift  of  God,  coupled  with  his 
strenuous  efforts,  but  he  caused  them  to  inherit 
it.  Jesus  not  only  won  the  wealth  of  the  heaven- 
lies  for  His  Church  by  His  death  and  resurrec- 
tion, but  He  waits  to  cause  us  to  inherit  it 
through  the  Holy  Spirit  which  He  gives. 

How  great  is  our  heritage  !  Heirs  of  God  and 
joint-heirs  with  Christ  !  All  things  that  pertain 
to  life  and  godliness  await  our  appropriation  ! 
All  spiritual  blessings  in  Christ  Jesus !  There  is 
no  conceivable  grace  or  virtue,  no  fabric  of  the 
Divine  looms  for  the  soul's  dress,  no  ornament  of 
heavenly  jewellery  for  the  soul's  adorning,  no 
weapon  of  celestial  temper  for  the  soul's  equip- 
ment, no  salve  or  balm  of  Divine  comfort  for  the 
soul's  healing,  which  is  not  ours  in  Jesus.  The 
Father  has  given  Him  to  have  life  in  Himself 
that  He  might  give  us  life  more  abundantly.  He 
is  full  of  grace  and  truth,  that  out  of  His  fullness 
we  all  may  receive.  He  received  of  the  Father 
the  promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  He  might 
pour  Him  forth  in  Pentecostal  fullness.  But  we 
do  not  possess  our  possessions.  We  are  like  peo- 
ple who  have  sent  all  their  valuables  to  the 
strong-room  of  a  bank,  and  never  by  any  chance 
make  use  of  them. 

This  is  a  lack  which  Jesus  can  also  supply.  He 
can  cause  us  to  inherit :  first,  by  His  Spirit  He 
reveals  the  lavishness  of  the  Divine  possession  ; 
next  He  excites  an  appetite  of  desire ;  next,  He 
begets  the  expectant  faith  that  claims;  and, 
lastly,  He  becomes  to  us  each  one  of  these  things, 
so  that  we  are  enriched  in  Him,  and  possessing 
Him,  find  that  all  things  are  really  ours. 


184 


As  an  eagle  stirreth  up  her  fiesf,  that  flutter eth 
over  her  young.  Dent,  xxxii.  //. 

THREE  references  are  made  to  the  eagle  in 
this  passage. 

She  stirs  up  her  nest. — When  her  fledglings  are 
old  enough  to  fly,  but  linger  around  the  few  bits 
of  stick,  dignified  as  a  nest,  the  mother-bird 
breaks  it  up,  and  scatters  them.  How  much  bet- 
ter this,  than  that  they  should  miss  the  luxury  of 
flight  on  outspread  pinions  in  the  blue  vault,  and 
of  basking  in  the  eye  of  the  sun.  So  when  the 
Father  sees  His  children  clinging  to  earth's  bare 
rocks,  captured  and  held  by  the  poor  sticks  they 
have  gathered,  and  missing  the  ascension-glory, 
He  breaks  up  the  nest.  The  fortune  is  dispersed, 
the  home  broken  up,  the  aspect  of  the  life 
changed.  We  are  then  able  to  enjoy  the  bliss  of 
life  in  the  heavenlies  with  Christ  Jesus. 

She  flutters  over  her  young. — They  stand 
scared  and  wretched  on  the  edge  of  the  rock,  but 
she  careers  gently  above  them,  now  edging 
around,  now  mounting,  then  dropping  far  below 
to  rise  again.  So  would  she  allure  them  to  fol- 
low her  example.  Here  again  we  have  an  em- 
blem of  God's  efforts  to  make  us  imitators  of 
Himself,  to  teach  us  the  possibilities  that  await 
us  in  Jesus. 

She  spreads  forth  her  wings  and  takes  them. — 
Incited  by  the  mother's  endeavors,  the  eaglet 
may  venture  on  the  untried  air,  and  lo  !  the  un- 
accustomed wings  fail  beneath  its  weight.  It 
falls,  but  not  far,  for  the  mother  swoops  beneath, 
and  bears  it  up  and  away.  Trembling  soul,  God 
is  beneath  thee.  If  thy  faith  fails,  and  thou  art 
falling,  like  another  Peter,  into  a  bottomless 
abyss.  He  will  catch  thee,  and  bear  thee  up,  and 
teach  thee  the  mystery  of  the  more  abundant 
life. 

185 


Thy  Thiwimim  atid  thy   Urim   are   with    Him 
ivhom  thou  lovest.       Deut.  xxxiii.  8  (r.  v.,  tnarg.). 

WHAT  a  contrast  between  the  blessings  of 
Jacob  and  of  Moses  !  In  Jacob's  farewell  charge, 
we  find  the  ominous  words,  "  Cursed  be  Levi  "  ; 
and  he  foretells  that  this  tribe  should  be  divided 
and  scattered  in  Israel.  But  here  the  curse  is 
turned  into  a  blessing ;  and  the  scattering  is 
transformed  into  a  holy  ministry  for  the  whole  of 
Israel,  "They  shall  teach  Jacob  thy  judgments 
and  Israel  thy  law."  See  to  what  a  place  of 
privilege  they  are  exalted  !  "They  shall  put  in- 
cense before  thee,  and  whole  burnt-offering  upon 
thine  altar." 

If  ever  there  was  an  illustration  of  the  power 
we  have  to  turn  a  curse  into  a  blessing,  it  is  here. 
Step  by  step  the  results  of  that  awful  sin,  for 
which  Jacob  cursed  his  sons,  are  changed  into 
benedictions.  Where  sin  abounded,  grace  has 
much  more  abounded  ;  indeed,  it  has  reigned,  it 
has  broken  out  into  radiant  and  royal  glory. 
Do  not  sit  down  hopeless,  because  of  the  conse- 
quences of  an  early  sin  that  threaten  to  follow 
thee  to  thy  grave.  Thou  mayest  yet  get  honey 
out  of  the  lion's  carcase. 

The  way  to  this  was  by  entire  devotion  to  the 
call  of  God.  After  the  sin  of  the  golden  calf, 
Levi  said  of  his  father  and  of  his  mother,  I  have 
not  seen  them ;  neither  did  he  acknowledge  his 
brethren,  nor  know  his  children.  The  cause  of 
God,  which  Aaron  had  so  ruthlessly  betrayed, 
was  dearer  to  him  than  the  tenderest  ties  of 
blood.  So  he  came  into  God's  secret  counsels 
of  love,  and  knew  the  Urim  and  Thummim  an- 
swers of  the  One  whom  he  loved.  "  The  secret 
of  the  Lord  is  with  them  that  fear  Him."  It  is 
only  to  those  with  whom  He  dwells  that  He  can 
communicate  His  blessed  will  and  purposes.  Oh, 
may  such  bliss  be  mine  ! 

186 


His  eye   was    not  dim,    nor   his    natural  force 
abated.  Dent,  xxxiv.  y. 

THIS  was  true  of  Moses  as  a  man.  He  had 
seen  plenty  of  sorrow  and  toil ;  but  such  was  the 
simple  power  of  his  faith,  in  casting  his  burden 
on  the  Lord,  that  they  had  not  worn  him  out  in 
premature  decay.  There  had  been  no  undue 
strain  on  his  energy.  All  that  he  wrought  on 
earth  was  the  outcome  of  the  secret  abiding  of 
his  soul  in  God.  God  was  his  home,  his  help, 
his  stay.  He  was  nothing  :  God  was  all.  There- 
fore his  youth  was  renewed. 

But  there  is  a  deeper  thought  than  this.  Moses 
stood  for  the  law.  It  came  by  him,  and  was  in- 
carnated in  his  stern,  grave  aspect.  He  brought 
the  people  to  the  frontier  of  the  land,  but  would 
not  bring  them  over  it  :  and  so  the  Law  of  God, 
even  when  honored  and  obeyed,  cannot  bring  us 
into  the  Land  of  Promise.  We  stand  on  the 
Pisgah-height  of  effort,  and  view  it  afar  in  all  its 
fair  expanse ;  but  if  we  have  never  got  further 
than  "Thou  shalt  do  this  and  live,"  we  can 
never  pass  into  the  blessed  life  of  rest  and  vic- 
tory symbolized  by  Canaan. 

But  though  the  law  fails,  it  is  through  no  in- 
trinsic feebleness.  It  is  always  holy,  just,  and 
good.  Though  the  ages  vanish,  and  heaven  and 
earth  pass  away,  its  jots  and  tittles  remain  in  un- 
impaired majesty.  It  must  be  fulfilled,  first  by 
the  Son,  then  by  His  Spirit  in  our  hearts.  Let 
us  ever  remember  the  searching  eye  of  that  holy 
Law  detecting  evil,  and  its  mighty  force  avenging 
wrong.  Its  eye  will  never  wax  dim,  nor  its 
natural  force  abate.  Let  us,  therefore,  shelter  in 
Him,  who,  as  our  Representative,  magnified  the 
law  and  met  its  claims,  and  made  it  honorable. 


187 


Every  place  that  the  sole  of  your  foot  shall  tread 
upon.  Josh.  i.j. 

ALL  the  land  was  given,  but  every  inch  of  it 
had  to  be  claimed.  Israel  had  to  put  her  foot 
down  upon  the  land,  whether  wilderness  or 
Lebanon,  plain  or  hill,  and  say,  "This  is  mine 
by  the  gift  of  God."  And  as  the  right  was  as- 
serted, God  made  it  good.  The  land  had  been 
covenanted  to  them  through  Abraham,  but  it 
awaited  conquest  and  appropriation  by  the 
Israelites.  No  man  was  able  to  stand  with  them 
in  the  lot  of  their  inheritance. 

The  settler  who  has  purchased  a  plot  of  land  in 
the  Far  West  claims  it  to  its  furthest  borders ; 
and,  if  needs  be,  invokes  the  aid  of  the  Govern- 
ment to  make  good  his  purchase.  So  with  our 
possessions  in  Christ.  All  spiritual  gifts  are  ours 
in  the  Risen  Saviour.  From  the  wilderness  of  the 
earth  even  to  the  river  that  makes  glad  the  city  of 
God,  and  unto  the  glassy  sea  on  which  the  sun 
never  goes  down,  is  our  border.  But  we  must 
put  the  foot  of  faith  down  and  say,  "  All  things 
are  ours ;  we  have  been  blessed  with  all  spiritual 
blessings  in  the  heavenlies  in  Christ.  He  hath 
given  us  all  things  that  pertain  to  life  and  godli- 
ness." 

Let  this  be  the  beginning  of  a  new  life  for  thee. 
Reckon  that  thou  art  on  the  resurrection  side  of 
death.  Do  not  look  at  temptation  or  difficulty, 
but  claim  by  steadfast  faith  whatever  God  has 
taught  thee  to  feel  the  need  of.  Dost  thou  ask 
how  that  strong  courage  may  be  thine?  The  an- 
swer is  at  hand.  Meditate  on  the  Word  of  God 
day  and  night,  and  depart  not  from  it  to  the 
right  or  left.  The  strength  of  the  inner  life 
finds  nourishment  in  the  Word  of  God.  Only  in 
this  way  can  we  behold  the  broad  expanse  to  ter- 
ritory that  is  ours  by  right,  and  obtain  strength 
to  go  up  and  possess  it. 

188 


This  line  of  scarlet  thread. 

Josh.  a.  j8. 

IT  speaks  of  the  precious  blood  of  Christ. 
Scarlet  is  the  color  of  Calvary.  Twine  it  round 
the  window  through  which  thou  lookest  out  on  thy 
foes,  and  away  to  the  river  of  death.  Nothing 
can  hurt  the  soul  which  has  put  the  precious 
blood  of  Christ  between  it  and  condemnation  or 
alarm.  Let  every  outlook  to  the  future  be  asso- 
ciated with  a  remembrance  that  His  blood  was 
shed  for  thee,  and  be  thou  thankful. 

Rahab  is  the  type  of  Gentile  sinners  who  are 
permitted  to  share  in  the  unsearchable  riches  of 
Christ,  and  to  sit  with  Him  in  the  heavenlies. 
That  scarlet  thread  had  been  the  means  of  salva- 
tion to  the  spies.  By  it  they  had  been  let  down 
to  the  ground  and  saved  from  death.  It  must 
have  been  strong.  So  the  blood  of  Christ  avails, 
not  only  for  us,  but  for  all  who  shelter  with  us  in 
the  household  of  faith,  and  for  others  who  find  it 
the  means  of  life  as  they  receive  it  from  our 
hands. 

Let  us  see  to  it  that,  like  Rahab,  we  gather 
father  and  mother,  brethren  and  friends,  to  share 
with  us  the  shelter  and  safeguard  of  the  precious 
blood. 

But,  after  all,  it  was  not  the  cord  that  saved — 
that  was  only  the  emblem  and  type.  Behind  it 
on  the  one  hand  was  God's  oath,  spoken  through 
the  spies,  and  on  the  other  was  Rahab's  faith. 
The  true  safety  of  that  house  on  the  wall  stood  in 
the  moral  attitude  of  one  woman  in  it.  Rahab 
believed  God  who  had  dried  up  the  water  of  the 
Red  Sea,  and  who  was  God  in  heaven  above  and 
in  earth  beneath.  This  faith  raised  her  after- 
ward from  her  life  of  shame  to  become  the  an- 
cestress of  Christ.  Such  wonders  does  the  blood 
of  Christ  work  in  outcasts  from  the  commonwealth 
of  Israel,  bringing  them  nigh. 
169 


When  the  soles  of  the  feet  of  the  priests  .  .  . 
shall  rest  in  the  Jordan.  josh.  Hi.  13  (r.  v.). 

THE  floods  of  the  Jordan  were  high  :  so  may 
be  the  floods  of  trial  and  sorrow  that  sometimes 
overflow  their  banks  ;  so  the  floods  of  conviction 
of  sin ;  and  so,  to  some  at  least,  the  waters  of 
death.  Possibly  this  overflowing  is  needed  for 
the  time  of  harvest ;  the  width  of  golden  grain  in 
the  Jordan  valley  was  no  doubt  to  a  large  extent 
dependent  on  the  far-spreading  of  those  waters. 
How  the  heart  trembles,  as  we  hear  the  gurgling 
and  rushing  of  the  floods.  Hark,  how  they  lift 
up  their  voice  ! 

But  when  the  priest's  foot  touches  them,  they 
shrink  away.  Jesus  has  stepped  down  into  these 
floods  as  our  High  Priest.  In  Gethsemane  their 
overflowing  tide  washed  around  Him.  At  Cal- 
vary the  water-spouts  went  over  His  head.  In 
the  grave  He  seemed  momentarily  to  have  suc- 
cumbed. But  since  then  they  have  been  cut  ofl". 
Through  the  ages  He  has  stood,  bearing  the  ark 
of  propitiation,  and  arresting  the  tumultuous 
floods.     "Thus  far,  and  no  further." 

Sinful  soul,  deeply  convicted,  "Look  for  the 
Priest,"  on  whose  person  the  storm  broke,  and 
by  whom  it  has  been  checked  and  stayed  !  Tried 
believer,  be  sure  that  the  water-floods  cannot 
pass  Jesus,  to  reach  or  drown  thee  !  His  promise 
to  thee  is:  "When  thou  passest  through  the 
waters,  I  will  be  with  thee;  and  through  the 
rivers,  they  shall  not  overflow  thee :  when  thou 
walkest  through  the  fire  thou  shalt  not  be  burned  ; 
neither  shall  the  flame  kindle  upon  thee"  (Isa. 
xlii.  2).  And  when  death  approaches  thee,  O 
fearful  and  trembling  one,  thou  wilt  find  Jesus 
standing  between  thee  and  its  might,  making  a 
path  by  which  thou  shalt  pass  over  dry-shod. 


190 


Those  twelve  sto?ies  did  Joshua  set  up  in  Gilgal. 

Josh.  iv.  20  {R.  v.). 

NOT  content  with  pitching  a  cairn  of  stones . 
on  the  river's  bank,  Joshua,  at  God's  command, 
set  up  twelve  stones  in  the  midst  of  Jordan,  in 
the  place  where  the  feet  of  the  priests  that  bare 
the  Ark  of  the  Covenant  stood.  And  often,  as 
he  came  hack  to  Gilgal,  he  must  have  gone  out 
by  himself  to  walk  and  muse  beside  the  river, 
turning  the  outward  and  the  inner  gaze  to  the 
spot  where  beneath  the  flow  of  the  current  those 
stones  lay  hidden.  They  were  a  perpetual  me- 
morial of  where  the  people  had  been,  of  the  grace 
which  had  brought  them  forth,  and  of  the  posi- 
tion to  which  God  had  conducted  them.  Chil- 
dren in  after  days  would  gather  round  those 
mighty  boulders  and  be  instructed,  and  it  is  a 
great  matter  that  the  deliverances  of  God  should 
be  graven  as  with  a  pen  of  iron  on  the  soft  and 
yielding  surface  of  the  child's  heart;  thus  the 
coming  generation  shall  revere  and  love  the  name 
of  Jehovah. 

The  story  of  these  stones  is  told  again  by  the 
Apostle  Paul  in  Ephesians  ii.  We  were  dead  in 
trespasses  and  sins,  and  lay  hopelessly  in  the 
grave,  like  stones  in  the  heart  of  the  river  of 
death.  But  we  were  brought  forth  by  God's 
mighty  hand  and  outstretched  arm.  We  were 
raised  up  together  with  Christ.  The  resurrec- 
tion of  Jesus  is  the  memorial  stone  of  our  posi- 
tion in  the  sight  of  God  ;  from  this  we  should 
never  recede.  How  those  old  stones  would  have 
cried  out,  if  Israel  had  gone  back  over  the  Jor- 
dan !  And  does  not  Christ's  empty  grave  protest 
against  our  living  amid  the  pleasures  and  cares  of 
the  world  from  which  He  has  gone,  and  going, 
has  taken  us  also  ?  This  is  not  our  rest ;  let  us 
make  good  our  standing  in  the  risen  Christ. 


191 


Behold^  there  stood  a  Man. 

Josh.  V.  ij. 

WHEN  Jericho,  its  fortifications  looming  dark 
through  the  night,  must  be  assailed,  then  the  Di- 
vine Man  may  be  looked  for.  Only  let  circum- 
cision do  its  keen  work  of  separation,  so  that 
there  be  nothing  of  the  flesh  with  its  energy  and 
pride  to  vaunt  itself  before  God  ;  then,  as  we 
stand  face  to  face  with  some  imminent  peril,  God 
will  be  revealed  as  our  very  present  help.  Not 
weeks  before  our  need,  not  before  the  Jordan  has 
been  crossed  in  faith,  not  before  circumcision 
has  been  performed;  but  when  all  God's  de- 
mands have  been  met,  and  to-morrow  calls  for 
action,  then  behold  there  will  stand  the  Man 
Christ  Jesus,  not  by  Himself,  but  as  Captain  of 
the  Lord's  host,  awaiting  with  mighty  legions  on 
the  wing  for  His  least  word. 

It  is  sometimes  thought  that  the  Divine  War- 
rior had  come  to  supersede  Joshua;  this  is  not  so. 
He  was  Prince  of  another  host  than  Israel.  His 
host  was  the  celestial  armies,  which  were  going 
forth  to  war  against  Canaan.  As  long  as  Israel 
was  true  to  God,  these  were  its  allies.  Look  up, 
Christian  soul !  Thou  thinkest  thyself  alone;  or 
countest  sorrowfully  thy  poor  array ;  but  in  very 
deed  the  Man  of  Calvary  and  of  the  throne  is 
beside  thee.  All  heaven  owns  His  authority,  and 
will  supplement  thine  efforts.  Be  reverent,  obe- 
dient, full  of  faith  and  prayer.  Keep  step  with 
the  goings  forth  of  God.  Thou  shalt  have  light 
work  to  do.  Before  the  impact  of  His  might, 
thy  Jericho  shall  fall.  The  battle  is  not  to  the 
strong,  nor  the  race  to  the  swift ;  but  each  to 
those  who  are  living  lives  separate  from  the  world, 
and  dedicated  to  God.  The  vessels  which  are 
meet  for  the  Master's  use  arc  pure  ones.  Clean- 
ness, rather  than  cleverness,  is  the  prime  condi- 
tion of  successful  service. 

192 


Every  man  straight  before  him. 

Josh.  vi.  20. 

GOD  required  of  the  Israelites  only  to  wait, 
obey,  and  trust,  whilst  the  Divine  Captain  led 
His  celestial  hosts  to  the  assault,  and  achieved 
the  victory.  **  And  the  Lord  said  unto  Joshua, 
See,  I  have  given  into  thine  hand  Jericho,  and 
the  king  thereof,  and  the  mighty  men  of  valor. 
And  ye  shall  compass  the  city,  all  ye  men  of  war, 
and  go  round  about  the  city  once.  Thus  shalt 
thou  do  six  days."  We  must  be  sure  that  our 
way  lies  through  and  beyond  Jericho,  and  that 
God  has  called  us  to  take  it.  When  that  is  as- 
certained, we  may  be  perfectly  certain  that  the 
frowning  walls  of  difficulty,  which  rise  between 
us  and  the  further  land  of  promise,  will  fall  down 
flat. 

There  must  be  times  of  Waiting.  Israel 
waited  a  whole  week.  We  may  have  to  wait  still 
longer.  Let  patience  have  her  perfect  work. 
There  is  no  such  teacher  as  she  is ;  her  pupils 
become  perfect  and  entire,  wanting  nothing. 

There  must  be  times  of  Obedie7ice.  The  peo- 
ple could  not  understand  the  meaning  of  these 
repeated  marchings  around  the  walls.  They 
were  not,  however,  asked  to  understand,  but 
simply  to  obey.  First  the  priests  and  ark,  then 
the  warriors.  We  must  subordinate  our  armed 
activities  to  the  slow  and  reverent  pace  of  faith, 
hope,  and  love. 

There  must  be  times  of  exultant  Faith.  There 
was  no  quaver  or  hesitation  in  that  cry.  The 
Word  of  God,  as  communicated  by  Joshua, 
hushed  every  doubt  and  misgiving.  In  confident 
assurance  the  people  shouted,  and  according  to 
their  faith,  so  it  was  to  them.  "By  faith  the 
walls  of  Jericho  fell  down."  There  are  no  walls 
of  superstition  and  sin  strong  enough  to  resist 
Faith's  shout,  when  God  says  that  her  shouting 
time  is  come. 

193 


The  Lord  said  unto  Joshua^  Get  thee  up. 

Josh.  vii.  lo. 

THERE  was  something  very  beautiful  and  im- 
pressive in  that  prostrate  form.  And  as  the  awed 
people  gathered  around  in  silence  to  contemplate 
their  leader  thus  prone  upon  his  face,  it  must 
have  greatly  touched  them. 

There  was  cause  for  soul-anguish.  Joshua  had 
counted  on  unbroken  victory  through  the  might 
of  his  covenant-keeping  God ;  but  here  it  ap- 
peared, either  that  God  had  deserted  His  people, 
or  that  He  could  not  cope  with  the  gods  on 
which  the  Canaanites  depended.  In  either  case, 
Israel  was  in  awful  peril ;  obviously  she  had  not 
strength  sufficient  to  cope  with  the  seven  nations 
of  Canaan.  If  left  to  herself,  she  must  inevit- 
ably be  cut  off.  But  even  this  prospect  alarmed 
Joshua  less  than  the  discredit  that  would  attach 
to  the  name  of  Jehovah. 

There  are  hours  in  our  life  when  we  are  called 
from  the  exercises  of  devotion,  good  and  God- 
honoring  though  they  may  be,  to  deal  with  the 
sin  of  our  people,  or  to  cut  out  some  source  of 
failure  and  defeat.  Our  place  then  is  no  longer 
before  the  ark;  but  arraigning  the  people  by 
their  tribes,  casting  lots  for  the  offender,  or  con- 
signing the  accursed  thing  to  fire.  Child  of 
God,  do  not  be  content  with  weeping  and  pray- 
ing before  God ;  diligently  ascertain  and  put 
away  the  accursed  thing  which  has  hidden  His 
face  from  you.  When  defeat  befalls  you  at  the 
hands  of  Satan,  you  may  always  be  sure  that 
there  is  some  flaw  in  your  consecration.  You 
have  taken  some  of  the  devoted  thing  back  from 
God.  The  course  of  the  Christian  warrior  should 
be  as  the  sun  when  he  goeth  forth  in  his  strength, 
and  in  regular  gradients  drives  his  chariot  from 
the  eastern  wane  up  the  steep  of  heaven. 


194 


He  wrote  a  copy  of  the  law  of  Moses. 

Josh.  viii.  J2. 

IF  we  view  this  act  typically,  it  is  very  signifi- 
cant. Tliese  things  happened  to  Israel  as  a  type 
and  foreshadowing  of  great  spiritual  realities. 
Canaan  is  an  emblem  of  the  heavenlies,  that 
blessed  condition  of  joy  and  peace  and  spiritual 
power  which  is  ours  in  Jesus,  and  becomes  ours 
to  enjoy,  when  we  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  It  might  have  been  supposed  that  in  the 
land  of  promise  there  would  have  been  no  need 
for  the  holy  law  of  God,  as  given  at  Sinai,  and 
repeated  in  Deuteronomy.  But  it  was  not  so. 
So,  even  in  the  heavenlies,  the  law  must  be  writ- 
ten again. 

Jesus  said,  I  came  not  to  destroy,  but  to  fulfill 
(Matt.  v.  17). — Not  to  abrogate,  or  set  aside,  or 
supersede  the  holy  law,  but  to  reenact  it  after  a 
more  spiritual  sort,  and  to  secure,  not  an  out- 
ward, but  an  inward  compliance  with  its  pre- 
cepts. Our  Lord  complied,  not  only  with  the 
moral,  but  with  the  ceremonial  law;  and  His 
great  aim  and  purpose  was  to  honor  and  magnify 
it  in  the  hearts  of  His  people. 

The  Apostle  Paul  says  that  the  ordinance  of 
the  law  will  be  fulfilled  by  those  who  walk  after 
the  Spirit  (Rom.  viii.  4). — It  is  holy,  just,  and 
good;  and  they  who  are  carnal  and  sold  under 
sin  cannot  by  their  own  resolutions  and  efforts 
comply  with  its  demands ;  but  when  the  soul  is 
yielded  to  the  Holy  Spirit,  He  works  in  us  the 
will  and  the  power. 

The  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  says  that  it  will  be 
written  on  our  hearts  (Heb.  viii.  10). — This  is 
the  provision  of  the  new  covenant;  God's  law 
written,  not  on  stone,  whence  it  might  be  oblit- 
erated ;  not  on  metal,  whence  it  might  be  melted  ; 
not  on  the  memory,  whence  it  might  fade :  but 
on  the  tablets  of  the  heart,  where  we  shall  love  it. 
195 


They  asked  not  counsel  at  the  mouth  of  the  Lord. 

Josh,  ix.  14. 

WHAT  an  ominous  sound  there  is  in  those 
words  !  They  portend  disaster — and  it  befell. 
Up  to  this  moment  the  initiative  had  always  been 
taken  by  the  Lord.  Now  for  the  first  time  it  is 
taken  by  Joshua  and  the  people.  It  was  a  bad 
business !  Certainly  the  Gibeonites  did  their 
work  with  guile,  and  were  more  than  a  match 
for  the  chosen  race.  Probably  they  would  not 
have  dared  to  attempt  such  a  piece  of  imposition 
on  men  of  their  own  sort;  but  the  Israelites 
seemed  a  likely  prey.  They  had  so  recently 
come  into  the  land,  that  they  might  be  supposed 
to  be  unfamiliar  with  the  guile  of  Canaan.  Yet 
how  astute  they  fancied  themselves  ! 

So  the  children  of  God  are  imposed  upon  still ! 
Women  get  married  to  unconverted  husbands, 
supposing  all  the  while  that  they  are  converted. 
Ministers  of  churches  admit  ravening  wolves  into 
their  midst,  deceived  by  the  device  of  the  sheep- 
skin. Young  converts  get  seduced  from  the  sim- 
plicity and  purity  of  the  faith  by  lying  spirits, 
that  seem  as  lovely  as  God's  angels.  This  is  due 
to  their  relying  on  their  own  judgment,  and  not 
asking  counsel  of  God.  We  must  try  the  spirits, 
whether  they  be  of  God,  for  many  false  spirits 
are  gone  out  into  the  world. 

Yet  God  held  Israel  to  the  covenant  that  their 
leaders  had  struck,  and  in  after  years  their  breach 
of  this  promise  was  awfully  avenged  (2  Sam.  xxi. 
1,2).  When  we  have  taken  a  false  step  we  may 
be  forgiven,  but  we  shall  be  held  to  its  results. 
O  souls,  be  sure  to  call  in  the  Priest,  with  the 
Urim  and  Thummim,  that  He  may  give  you 
counsel.  Seek  the  purged  eye  and  the  pure 
heart,  to  be  able  to  see  people  and  things  as  they 
really  arc. 


196 


There  was  no  day  like  that  after  it. 

Josh.  X.  14. 

THE  sun  seemed  to  stay  its  course  in  mid- 
heaven,  and  hasted  not  to  go  down;  but  there 
has  been  no  day  like  that,  and  there  will  be  none. 
You  may  bid  the  westering  sun  of  another's  life 
stay  its  downward  track  toward  the  western  sea, 
but  in  vain.  It  may  be  some  revered  minister, 
some  sainted  parent,  some  life  dearer  to  you  than 
your  own  ;  but  it  obeys  not  your  bidding.  Surely 
and  inevitably  the  little  daughter  of  Jairus  fades 
like  a  flower  plucked  from  its  stalk ;  and  Lazarus 
sinks  into  his  death-sleep,  despite  the  eager  mes- 
sage of  the  sisters  to  the  Life-giver. 

So  with  the  sun  of  your  own  life.  Slowly  and 
steadily  it  descends.  Work  while  it  is  called  to- 
day ;  for  the  night  cometh,  in  which  no  man  can 
work.  Finish  the  work  that  your  Father  has 
given  you  to  do ;  there  is  only  just  time  enough 
for  it  to  be  done  within  the  span  of  your  days. 
Our  one  anxiety  should  be  that  nothing  divert  us 
from  His  path,  or  intercept  the  communication 
of  His  grace. 

But  there  is  one  Sun  that  goes  not  down.  "Thy 
sun  shall  no  more  go  down,  neither  shall  thy 
moon  withdraw  herself;  for  the  Lord  shall  be  to 
thee  an  everlasting  light,  and  the  days  of  thy 
mourning  shall  be  ended."  Ah,  precious  Sun 
of  Righteousness,  when  once  Thou  hast  risen 
upon  the  soul.  Thou  shalt  know  no  setting,  ever 
higher  and  higher  shalt  Thou  rise  until  the  per- 
fect day;  no  twilight  or  night  can  come  where 
Thou  art ;  no  darkness  draw  its  vail  across  the 
sky  !  Neither  life  nor  death,  nor  principalities, 
nor  powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to 
come,  shall  be  able  to  separate  us  from  the  love 
of  God,  which  has  broken  upon  our  hearts, 
through  the  wall  of  cloud. 


197 


So  Joshua  took  the  whole  land,  .  .  .  and  Joshua 
gave  it.  .  .  .  Josh.  xi.  2j. 

THIS  is  almost  an  exact  parallel  of  the  words 
addressed  by  Peter  to  the  crowds  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost :  "  Having  received  of  the  Father  the 
promise  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  He  hath  shed  forth 
this.'^  In  His  representative  capacity,  as  the 
Head  of  His  Church,  and  the  Forerunner  of  the 
great  host  of  the  redeemed,  it  was  necessary  that 
Jesus  should  first  receive  from  God  the  Father  all 
that  spiritual  inheritance  which  He  was  to  com- 
municate to  those  who  should  afterward  believe 
in  His  name :  and  having  received,  He  is  pre- 
pared to  give.  "Ye  shall  receive  power,  when 
the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon  you." 

The  whole  land  of  spiritual  blessing  is  now  in 
the  hand  of  Jesus.  The  prince  of  this  world  is 
cast  out.  The  power  of  the  Anakim  is  broken. 
The  seven  nations  of  Canaan  and  all  the  power 
of  the  enemy  is  under  His  feet.  His  are  the 
rivers  of  the  fullness  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  His 
the  mountains  of  fellowship ;  His  the  slopes  where 
the  vines  of  Eshcol  ripen  and  the  corn  of  Canaan 
goldens;  His  the  green  pastures  and  the  still 
waters  of  communion,  as  well  as  the  rocky  defile 
of  death.  Whatever,  then,  you  desire,  you  must 
seek  at  His  hand,  in  whom  it  is  vested  for  thee, 
and  me,  and  every  believer  :   and  He  will  give  it. 

The  land  had  rest  from  war.  Cease,  then, 
from  strife.  You  will  not  win  by  sore  wrestling. 
The  lame  take  the  prey.  Learn  to  take ;  let  Him 
cause  you  to  inherit ;  let  Him  give  according  to 
the  division  allotted  you  in  the  providence  and 
determination  of  God.  "It  shall  be  given  to 
those  for  whom  it  is  prepared."  "  They  that  re- 
ceive the  abundance  of  grace  shall  reign." 


198 


Moses f  the  servant  of  the  Lord,  gave  it. 

Josh.  xii.  6. 

WE  must  not  press  a  type,  or  analogy,  unduly, 
though  we  may  employ  it  to  illustrate  a  doctrine 
well  established  from  other  parts  of  Scripture. 
Such  an  illustration  is  here.  It  is  remarkable 
that  the  two  tribes  and  a  half  which  Moses  settled 
beyond  the  Jordan  took  little  part  in  the  national 
life,  and  were  soon  wiped  out  of  their  inherit- 
ance. They  were  apparently  absorbed  by  the 
nations  whom  they  were  supposed  to  have  super- 
seded. 

This  was  partly  due  to  the  devotion  of  the  peo- 
ple to  their  material  prosperity.  In  the  words  of 
Deborah,  Reuben  preferred  to  sit  among  the 
sheepfolds,  to  hear  the  piping  of  the  flocks,  rather 
than  to  take  part  in  the  emancipation  of  Canaan 
from  Midian.  But,  looked  at  typically,  may  we 
not  say  that  whatever  Moses  gives  will  ultimately 
evade  our  grasp  and  slip  from  our  possession  ? 
Like  the  tables  of  stone,  it  will  fall  from  our 
hand  and  be  broken  in  pieces.  All  that  you  try 
to  be  or  do  in  the  power  of  your  own  resolution 
and  energy  will  inevitably  fail  and  deceive  you. 
The  land  looks  fair  and  the  tenure  seems  good, 
but  you  will  not  be  able  to  retain  it. 

The  deepest  blessings  of  the  spiritual  life  can- 
not be  won  or  held  in  the  strength  of  our  own 
purpose,  even  though  it  be  a  holy  and  earnest  one. 
These  things  can  be  ours  only  in  so  far  as  we 
abide  in  Christ,  in  whom  our  inheritance  is 
vested,  and  from  whom  we  receive  it  as  we 
need,  by  faith.  We  can  hold  nothing  apart  from 
abiding  fellowship  with  Jesus.  And  this  is  our 
privilege.  Let  us  lift  our  hearts  to  the  blessed 
Spirit,  asking  that  He  would  reveal  to  us  that 
which  eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  nor  the 
heart  of  man  conceived,  but  which  God  hath  pre- 
pared for  those  that  love  Him. 

199 


There  remaineth  yet  very  much  land  to  be  pos- 
sessed. Josh.  xiii.  I. 

THIS  is  true  in  many  directions  : — 

Of  the  Bible. — How  many  pages  of  our  Bibles 
are  unpossessed  !  We  have  not  underlined  any 
verses  in  them,  or  put  any  marks  in  the  margin 
to  indicate  that  God  has  spoken  through  them  to 
our  souls.  They  are  as  clean  as  when  they  came 
from  the  printers.  It  is  well  sometimes  to  con- 
sider this,  and  to  resolve  to  master  some  un- 
familiar portions  of  God's  Word,  believing  that 
no  word  of  God  is  devoid  of  power.  To  many 
believers  the  Bible,  which  God  intended  for 
their  possession,  is  yet  an  unexplored  continent. 

Of  Doctrinal  Truth. — Doctrine  groups  texts, 
and  compares  them.  Doctrine  is  to  isolated 
texts  what  natural  laws  are  to  particular  facts. 
We  should  know  the  doctrines  of  the  Bible.  We 
should  understand  what  is  meant  by  Predestina- 
tion ;  the  unction  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  the 
Second  Advent.  How  much  unoccupied  land 
there  is  here,  which,  if  brought  under  cultivation, 
would  yield  grapes,  and  corn,  and  other  produce 
for  the  refreshment  and  strength  of  the  soul ! 

Of  Spiritual  Experience. — Talk  with  some 
deeply-taught  saint,  and  you  will  see  how  little 
you  have  traversed  of  the  good  land  beyond  the 
Jordan,  or  know  of  its  blessed  extent.  To  know 
the  length,  and  breadth,  and  depth,  and  height, 
of  the  love  of  Christ  seems  given  to  but  itvf ;  but 
it  need  not  be.  There  is  no  favoritism  in  the 
Kingdom  which  excludes  some  poor  souls  from 
the  richer  portions,  and  shuts  them  up  to  barren- 
ness and  a  northern  aspect.  Rise,  go  through 
the  land  in  the  length  and  breadth  of  it ;  it  is  all 
yours;  the  gift  of  God  in  Jesus  Christ;  claim 
and  possess  it. 

aoo 


As  my  strefigth  was  then,  even  so  is  my  strength 

now.  Josh.  xiv.  II. 

MEN  sometimes  lose  heart  as  they  grow  old. 
They  say :  My  intellect  will  become  impaired, 
my  physical  strength  will  abate,  my  power  for 
service  will  wane.  Yes  :  but  if  the  outward  man 
decays,  the  inward  man  shall  be  renewed  day  by 
day. 

Those  that  wait  on  the  Lord  shall  renew  their 
strength  :  whether  to  war,  to  go  out  for  service, 
or  to  come  in  for  fellowship  and  rest.  Be  of 
good  courage,  and  He  shall  strengthen  thine 
heart.  He  shall  satisfy  thy  mouth  with  good 
things,  so  that  thy  youth  shall  be  renewed  as  the 
eagle's.  God's  angels  are  always  young.  The 
drain  of  the  years  is  amply  met  by  the  inflow  of 
His  all-sufficient  grace.  There  is  no  reason  why 
we  should  decline  in  usefulness  and  fruit-bearing 
with  the  increase  of  years ;  but  the  reverse.  The 
last  sheaves  that  fall  beneath  thy  sickle  shall  be 
the  heaviest ;  and  the  width  of  thy  swathe  shall 
be  greatest  as  the  angel  of  death  touches  thee  and 
bids  thee  home.  The  secret  lies  in  wholly  fol- 
lowing the  Lord. 

But  Caleb  did  not  rely  on  his  strength  to  win 
Hebron.  Very  modestly  and  humbly  he  said, 
*'  It  may  be  that  the  Lord  will  be  with  me."  Not 
that  he  for  a  moment  doubted  it.  Could  it  be 
for  one  moment  supposed  that  the  God  whom  he 
had  wholly  followed  for  eighty  years  would  de- 
sert him  in  the  supreme  crisis  of  his  life  ?  But 
he  put  it  thus  in  the  sweet  lowliness  of  his  soul, 
because  he  counted  not  himself  worthy.  The 
strongest  men  are  they  who  count  that  they  are 
helpless  as  worms  ;  and  who  put  their  weakness 
at  the  disposal  of  God's  might.  To  each  of  us 
comes  the  promise  of  God  :  "  My  grace  is  suffi- 
cient for  thee ;  for  My  strength  is  made  perfect 
in  weakness." 

201 


He  gave  her  the  upper  springs,  a?td  the  nether 
springs.  josh.  xv.  ig. 

CALEB  had  conquered  his  giants,  and  so  he 
was  able  to  give  his  daughter  an  inheritance  of 
land  and  springs  of  water.  It  was  when  Jesus 
had  overcome  the  sharpness  of  death  that  He 
opened  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven  to  all  believers ; 
it  was  as  He  trampled  under  His  victorious  feet 
the  principalities  and  powers  of  darkness  that  He 
gave  to  His  Church  the  upper  and  the  nether 
springs. 

There  are  two  departments  in  our  life,  which 
are  closely  related  and  yet  one.  We  occupy  the 
one  in  our  contact  with  men  and  our  work  in  the 
world ;  the  other,  in  our  holy  moments  of  medi- 
tation and  prayer.  Christ's  sheep  go  out  to  their 
manifold  activities,  and  come  in  to  feed  on  the 
green  pastures  beside  waters  of  rest.  In  each  of 
these  we  stand  in  daily  need  of  the  springs  that 
are  fed  from  the  River  which  proceeds  from  the 
Throne  of  God,  and  which  is  an  emblem  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

On  the  Lord's  Day,  in  the  House  of  God,  or 
in  private  prayer,  we  climb  the  hills  and  stand 
on  the  margin  of  the  upper  springs  that  rise  there ; 
in  the  solemn  hush  we  hear  the  murmur  of  their 
waters.  On  Monday  we  descend  into  the  valley 
amid  the  clang  of  the  battle  and  the  cries  of 
human  need ;  but,  thank  God  !  plentiful  springs 
are  there  also.  Upper  springs  from  the  Mount 
of  Transfiguration  ;  nether  springs  for  the  Valley 
of  Humiliation.  Upper  springs  for  the  days  of 
health  and  abounding  activity;  nether  springs 
for  days  of  depression,  and  pain,  and  death. 
Upper  springs  in  praise,  adoration,  and  rapture; 
nether  springs  for  taking  the  yoke,  bearing  the 
burden,  and  drinking  of  His  cup.  Let  us  par- 
take freely  of  the  refreshing  water  which  flows 
from  the  River  of  God. 

202 


And  the  children  of  Joseph  took  their  inheritance. 

Josh.  xvi.  4. 

WHAT  a  wonderful  wealth  of  blessing  these 
children  of  Joseph  came  into  !  There  were  the 
precious  things  of  heaven,  the  dew,  and  the  deep 
that  couched  beneath ;  the  precious  fruits  of  the 
sun  and  of  the  growth  of  the  moons ;  the  metals 
of  the  ancient  mountains  and  the  everlasting 
hills;  the  precious  things  of  the  earth,  and  the 
fullness  thereof;  and,  above  all,  the  good  will  of 
Him  that  dwelt  in  the  bush  (Deut.  xxxiii.  13-16). 
Surely  they  were  blessed  with  all  manner  of  bless- 
ings— more  than  they  had  asked  or  thought ! 
The  rich  gifts  of  God's  grace  !  An  inheritance 
which  could  not  have  been  won  by  their  prowess 
or  arms,  but  was  the  free  gift  of  God's  love — to 
be  taken  and  enjoyed  ! 

These  things  happened  to  them  as  types ;  the 
spiritual  counterparts  of  all  are  ours  in  Christ. 
He  is  precious — nay,  priceless  :  His  promises  are 
exceeding  great  and  precious.  The  blood  by 
which  we  were  redeemed  is  precious,  has  mean- 
ings not  yet  explored ;  the  very  trial  of  our  faith 
is  precious  as  the  gold  taken  from  the  everlast- 
ing hills.  How  much  preciousness  there  is  for 
us  who  believe  !  (i  Pet.  ii.  7,  r.  v.).  But  we 
are  poor,  and  wretched,  and  miserable,  and 
blind,  and  naked,  because  we  have  not  taken  our 
inheritance. 

We  need  to  do  more  than  ask  for  it.  He  that 
asketh  should  not  rest  satisfied  till  he  receiveth. 
We  must  take  by  a  faith  which  claims,  appropri- 
ates, employs.  Open  your  heart  to  the  Lerd 
Jesus  Christ,  that  He  may  cause  you  to  receive 
and  enjoy  all  His  precious  gifts.  In  Christ  all 
things  are  yours:  go  in  and  possess;  take  your 
inheritance;  believe  that  you  do  receive;  thank 
Him,  and  go  on  your  way  rejoicing. 


203 


The  hill  country  shall  be  thine. 

Josh.  xvii.  /<?  (r.  v.). 

THE  hills  were  steep,  irregular,  covered  with 
forest.  "  These  shall  be  yours,"  said  Joshua  to 
the  children  of  Joseph ;  "  you  are  a  great  people, 
and  have  great  power ;  cut  down  the  forest,  ter- 
race the  slopes,  turn  their  bare  declivities  into 
cornfields  and  vineyards ;  fill  these  vast  unten- 
anted spaces  with  life  and  song." 

There  is  always  room  higher  up. — When  the 
valleys  are  full  of  Canaanites,  whose  iron  char- 
iots withstand  your  progress,  get  up  into  the 
hills,  occupy  the  upper  spaces.  If  you  can  no 
longer  work  for  God,  pray  for  those  who  can.  If 
you  cannot  move  earth  by  your  speech,  you  may 
move  Heaven.  If  the  development  of  life  on  the 
lower  slopes  is  impossible,  through  limitations  of 
service,  the  necessity  of  maintaining  others,  and 
such-like  restrictions,  let  it  break  out  toward  the 
unseen,  the  eternal,  the  divine. 

Faith  can  fell  forests. — Even  if  the  tribes  had 
realized  what  treasures  lay  above  them,  they 
would  hardly  have  dared  to  suppose  it  possible  to, 
rid  the  hills  of  their  dense  forest-growth.  But  as 
God  indicated  their  task.  He  reminded  them 
that  they  had  power  enough.  The  visions  of 
things  that  seem  impossible  are  presented  to  us, 
like  these  forest-covered  steeps ;  not  to  mock  us, 
but  to  incite  us  to  spiritual  exploits  which  would 
be  impossible  unless  God  had  stored  within  us 
the  great  strength  of  His  own  indwelling.  Dif- 
ficulty is  sent  to  reveal  to  us  what  God  can  do  in 
answer  to  the  faith  that  prays  and  works.  Are 
you  straitened  in  the  valleys?  Get  away  to  the 
hills,  live  there  ;  get  honey  out  of  the  rock,  and 
wealth  out  of  the  terraced  slopes  now  hidden  by 
forest. 


204 


Joshua  charged  them  that  went  to  describe  the 
land.  Josh,  xviii.  8. 

IN  every  age  of  the  Church's  story,  God  has 
sent  forth  men  to  walk  through  and  describe  the 
land  of  our  spiritual  inheritance.  They  have  be- 
come dissatisfied  with  the  low  attainments  of 
their  brethren,  and  with  great  desire  have  fol- 
lowed the  Divine  suggestions  which  pointed  to  a 
wider  knowledge  and  enjoyment  of  the  possibili- 
ties of  Christian  living.  In  the  first  ages,  this 
was  the  work  of  men  like  Chrysostom  and  Au- 
gustine; the  later  ones,  of  the  Reformers;  in 
later  ones  still,  of  men  whose  names  are  still 
fresh  in  the  memory  of  the  Church. 

But  there  is  a  sense  in  which  all  the  experi- 
ences of  life,  all  our  walkings  through  the  land 
of  promise,  all  our  discoveries  of  springs  and  val- 
leys and  far-stretching  champaigns  of  territory, 
are  not  intended  for  ourselves  alone,  but  for 
others.  We  are  led  by  a  certain  path,  that  we 
may  know  how  to  direct  a  poor  wanderer  on  his 
way.  We  are  comforted,  that  we  may  be  able 
to  comfort  those  who  are  in  any  trouble.  Our 
Father  has  blessed  us  with  all  spiritual  blessings 
in  Christ,  that  we  may  communicate  those  bless- 
ings to  our  fellows.  We  are  shown  the  mysteries 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven,  that  we  may  be  able 
to  unfold  their  joy  and  helpfulness  to  others. 
We  are  saved  that  we  may  become  workers  to- 
gether with  God. 

The  books  which  come  to  us  from  holy  men 
who  have  traversed  the  land  are  of  priceless  value, 
like  this  Domesday  book  which  Joshua  prepared. 
But  we  who  cannot  write  books  should  yet  de- 
scribe the  land.  "Come  and  hear,  all  ye  that 
fear  God  ;  and  I  will  declare  what  He  hath  done 
for  my  soul."  There  is  a  Divine  warrant  for  ex- 
perience meetings  of  the  right  sort,  where  the 
form  is  subordinate  to  the  fresh  and  living  Spirit. 

205 


In  the  midst  of  them. 

Josh.  xix.  ^9  (r.  v.). 

SINCE  Joshua  prefigures  the  Lord  Jesus,  we 
are  led  to  think  of  his  inheritance  in  the  midst  of 
his  brethren. 

In  the  midst  on  the  Cross. — **  They  crucified 
Him,  and  with  Him  two  others,  on  either  side 
one,  and  Jesus  in  the  midst. '^  Forasmuch  as  we 
partook  of  flesh  and  blood.  He  shared  the  same ; 
and  since  we  were  under  the  curse  of  a  broken 
law,  He  also  bowed  beneath  its  weight,  and  was 
made  a  curse  for  us.  He  took  the  mid-current 
of  pain ;  where  the  pressure  was  heaviest,  there 
the  Lamb  of  God  bore  the  sin  of  the  world.  On 
Him  God  made  to  meet  the  iniquities  of  us  all ; 
alike  of  those  who  refuse,  as  did  the  one  thief, 
and  of  those  who  accept,  as  did  the  other. 

In  the  midst y  in  the  gatherings  of  His  People. 
— "  Where  two  or  three  are  gathered  together  in 
My  name,  there  am  I  in  the  midst  of  them.^*  He 
is  the  centre  of  unity.  We  come  from  different 
quarters  with  our  peculiar  prepossessions  and  pre- 
conceptions, with  no  special  affinity  to  each 
other ;  but  touching  Him,  we  become  one  with 
all  who  touch  Him  also.  See  that,  not  the  ser- 
mon, nor  the  supper,  nor  the  form  of  worship,  is 
the  centre  of  fellowship;  but  Christ  always  and 
in  'all.  Then  let  Him  be  the  centre  of  thy  home 
life  and  thy  business  life  under  all  circumstances. 

In  the  midst  in  Heaven. — ^^  In  the  midst  of 
the  throne,  and  in  the  midst  of  the  elders,  a 
Lamb  standing."  All  the  circles  of  the  re- 
deemed, of  angels,  and  of  all  other  beings,  re- 
volve around  Jesus,  as  their  common  centre. 
They  thus  become  concentric.  Jesus  is  the  Heart 
of  Heaven  ;  the  Sun  of  Paradise ;  the  Essence  of 
its  bliss ;  the  Centre  of  its  love ;  the  innermost 
Soul  of  its  life. 

206 


And  for  the  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  them. 

Josh.  XX.  g. 

IT  is  interesting  to  note  this  provision,  made 
in  the  Land  of  Promise,  for  the  passing  over  of 
sins  which  were  not  sins  of  presumption.  In 
this  verse  there  is  that  great  word  "  Whosoever." 
These  cities  of  refuge  were  not  for  Hebrews  only, 
but  for  whosoever  had  killed  any  person,  without 
malice  or  forethought,  but  quite  unintentionally, 
and  had  fled  thither.  Some  poor  Gentile  might 
be  sojourning  among  the  chosen  people,  and  sud- 
denly find  himself  liable  to  the  pursuit  of  the 
avenger  of  blood ;  but  the  gates  of  the  refuge 
city  were  open  to  him,  and  the  elders  of  the  city 
were  bound  to  give  him  a  place  that  he  might 
dwell  among  them  (4),  not  only  safely,  but  in 
rest  and  peace. 

Herein  there  was  a  foreshadowing  of  the  days 
when  God  should  open  the  door  of  faith  unto  the 
Gentiles.  "  For  there  is  no  distinction  between 
Jew  and  Greek,  since  the  same  Lord  is  Lord  of 
all,  and  is  rich  unto  all  them  that  call  upon 
Him." 

There  were  two  mysteries  made  known  to  the 
Apostle  Paul  :  one  he  unfolds  in  the  Epistle  to 
the  Ephesians,  the  other  in  the  Epistle  to  the 
Colossians.  First,  he  teaches  us  that  the  Gentiles 
may  be  fellow  heirs  and  fellow  members  of  the 
body,  and  fellow  partakers  of  the  promise  of 
Christ  through  the  Gospel.  Next,  he  expatiates 
on  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  this  mystery,  among 
the  Gentiles,  that  the  living  Saviour  is  prepared 
to  dwell  in  their  hearts  also,  as  the  Hope  of 
Glory.  It  is  a  serious  question,  how  far  we  are 
participating  in  our  inheritance.  The  gates  of 
the  promises  made  to  Abraham  and  his  seed  are 
open  for  us  to  enter  in  and  dwell  there;  but 
there  is  too  much  backwardness  and  hesitancy  in 
us  all.     "  Whosoever  will^  let  him  take." 

207 


There  failed  not  aught  of  any  good  thing  which 
the  Lord  had  spoken.  Josh.  xxi.  4^. 

SUCH  will  be  the  summary  of  our  lives,  as  we 
review  them  from  the  land  of  the  sunset.  We 
shall  see  plenty  of  our  own  failures,  shortcomings, 
and  sins,  and  sadly  acknowledge  them.  We 
shall  see  that  our  unbelief  and  disobedience  have 
deprived  us  of  the  enjoyment  of  much  that  God 
intended  for  us.  We  shall  see  that  whatever  was 
lacking  was  in  no  wise  due  to  Him,  but  to  our- 
selves. The  land  of  our  inheritance  had  been  all 
given  us  in  Jesus ;  but  we  suffered  the  lack  of 
much,  because  of  our  failure  to  enter  in. 

There  may  be  long  delays  in  the  fulfilbnent  of 
pro?nise. — But  delays  are  not  denials ;  and  it  is 
better  to  let  the  fruit  ripen  before  you  pluck  it. 
Wait  till  God  drops  it  into  your  hand ;  it  will  be 
ever  so  much  sweeter. 

There  may  he  ene^nies  and  obstacles. — But  they 
will  give  back,  before  the  will  of  God,  as  the 
gates  of  night  roll  back  before  the  touch  of  the 
dawn.  Do  not  scheme,  or  fret,  or  be  impatient; 
God  is  doing  all  to  make  thy  life  full  of  favor 
and  blessing.  Wait  on  Him,  and  keep  His  way ; 
He  will  exalt  thee  to  inherit  the  earth.  Thou 
art  as  safe  as  if  the  gate  of  pearl  were  behind 
thee ;  thy  joy  cannot  rust  or  be  stolen ;  every 
wind  is  a  south  wind;  every  shore  thy  native 
land ;  every  circumstance  a  rough  packing-case 
containing  the  gifts  of  thy  Father's  love. 

There  may  be  ignorance  and  weak?iess. — But 
God  can  deal  with  this  also.  Take  to  Him  thine 
imperfect  apprehension,  thy  faltering  faith.  He 
can  make  right  what  is  wrong,  and  adjust  thee 
to  receive  all  He  waits  to  give.  Heaven  will  be 
full  of  wonder  at  the  way  in  which  God  has  kept 
His  word,  and  done  all  that  He  had  promised, 
and  more. 

208 


A  witness  between  tis  and  yoti. 

Josh.  xxii.  2y. 

THE  two  tribes  and  a  half  made  the  mistake 
which  all  Christendom  has  made  since.  They 
endeavored  to  erect  an  outward  symbol  of  unity 
in  this  altar.  They  hoped  that  it  would  secure 
them  from  excision  from  the  rest  of  Israel.  They 
sought  to  make  a  unity,  instead  of  accepting  this 
as  a  fact,  and  endeavoring  to  fuanifest  it  by  three 
pilgrimages  a  year  to  God's  altar  at  Shiloh. 

Similarly,  some  Christians  set  up  a  church,  a 
system,  a  creed,  and  mode  of  worship,  and  main- 
tain that  the  Divine  unity  can  only  be  realized  in 
connection  with  one  or  other  of  these.  You 
must  be  a  votary  at  their  altar  of  Ed,  or  you  run 
the  risk  of  their  accusing  you  of  the  sin  of 
schism.  They  substitute  an  outward  for  an  in- 
ward unity,  and  a  mechanical  for  a  vital  spiritual 
fellowship. 

If  we  belong  to  Christ,  we  belong  to  one  an- 
other. The  Church,  with  all  its  members,  is  one 
vine,  one  body,  one  family ;  and  therefore  we 
have  to  manifest,  rather  than  to  make  the  unity, 
concerning  which  our  Lord  thought  so  much  in 
His  intercessory  prayer.  *'  That  they  all  may  be 
one;  as  Thou,  Father,  art  in  Me,  and  I  in  Thee, 
that  they  also  may  be  One  in  us  ;  that  the  world 
may  believe  that  Thou  hast  sent  Me." 

We  are  one  in  the  thought  of  the  Father,  one 
in  the  redemption  of  the  Son,  one  in  the  posses- 
sion of  the  indwelling  Holy  Spirit.  Let  us  be 
one  in  our  relation  to  others,  pitying,  loving,  aid- 
ing each  other,  forgiving  and  restoring,  avoiding 
unkind  comparisons  and  criticisms,  remembering 
that  the  failure  or  success  of  one  is  that  of  all, 
and  endeavoring  to  hasten  the  hour  when  the 
manifested  oneness  of  the  Church  shall  compel 
the  world  to  believe  that  the  Father  sent  the  Son. 


ao9 


Take  good  heed  unto  yourselves ,  that  ye  love  the 
Lord  your  God.  Josh,  xxiii.  ii. 

LOVE  is  the  crown  of  human  nature ;  its  regal 
chaplet  of  flowers;  the  bond  by  which  the  senti- 
ent universe  is  made  one ;  the  trait  in  which  we 
most  nearly  resemble  God — for  God  is  love.  We 
may  love  God  from  four  parts  of  our  nature 
(Luke  X.  27).  From  the  hearty  the  seat  of  the 
emotions  ;  from  the  soul,  the  seat  of  individuality 
or  will ;  in  the  strength  of  our  activities;  and  in 
the  mind,  the  organ  of  thought  and  intelligence. 
Some  natures  are  more  prone  to  one,  and  others 
to  another.  Each  is  a  gate  into  the  metropolis 
of  Love,  or  by  which  the  love  of  God  may  enter 
us.  And  it  is  of  small  consequence  which  gate 
you  use,  so  long  as  you  use  one,  and  in  this  way 
enter  the  city. 

Many  people  are  accustomed  to  impute  love  to 
the  heart  only,  instead  of  associating  it  also  with 
other  departments  of  the  inner  life.  Because 
you  have  no  emotion  of  love,  you  therefore  con- 
clude that  you  do  not  love.  But  there  may  be 
the  love  of  soul,  wherein  the  will  crowns  Christ 
as  King  ;  or  the  love  of  the  strength,  wherein  all 
the  energy  of  life  revolves  around  Jesus ;  or  the 
love  of  the  mind,  in  which  all  thought  is  brought 
into  captivity  to  the  obedience  of  Christ. 
Choose  which  you  will. 

But  we  must  take  heed  to  ourselves.  The  love 
of  God  will  come  naturally  and  easily  in  us  as 
the  fruit  of  the  Spirit,  unless  we  do  anything  to 
mar  or  hinder  it.  Love  begets  love ;  think  then 
how  much  He  loved  you,  when  He  gave  Himself 
for  you.  Take  heed  to  your  speech,  acts,  inten- 
tions, volitions,  affections;  watch  as  well  as 
pray ;  keep  yourselves  in  the  love  of  God ;  love 
one  another  and  so  abide  in  His  love ;  and  in 
you  also  the  love  of  God  will  be  perfected. 


210 


Ye  cannot  serve  the  Lord. 

Josh,  xxiv,  ig, 

IT  seemed  as  though  Joshua  sought  to  damp 
down  the  enthusiasm  of  the  people.  They  were 
all  on  fire  to  serve,  but  he  repressed  their  ardor, 
crying,  '*Back,  back!  This  is  no  place  for 
you."  We  are  reminded  of  a  precise  analogy  in 
the  Gospels,  where  our  Saviour  said  to  Peter  and 
the  rest,  "Ye  cannot  follow  Me  now"  (John 
xiii.  31-38).     Why  this  Divine  reluctance  ? 

The  answer  is  clear,  when  we  consider  the 
sequel  in  each  case.  In  the  one,  we  have  only 
to  turn  a  page  in  our  Bibles,  to  come  on  all  the 
disobedience,  anarchy,  and  backsliding  of  the 
Book  of  Judges ;  in  the  other  we  see  that  Peter 
denied  and  the  rest  forsook  Him.  How  ob- 
viously it  was  shown  that  there  was  a  moral  in- 
compatibility between  their  self-confident  asser- 
tions and  the  service  of  the  Holy  God.  But 
this  incompatibility  was  present  to  the  Spirit's 
discernment  when  these  strong  asseverations  were 
made,  first  by  the  Israelites,  and  secondly  by  the 
Apostles. 

So  it  becomes  us  to  speak  very  reverently  and 
leniently  of  our  ability  to  obey.  We  are  prob- 
ably overestimating  our  powers.  Created  might 
wanes  and  fails  beneath  the  searching  demands 
of  the  Holy  One.  Perpetual  failure  has  weak- 
ened us ;  for  when  once  a  door  has  been  broken 
through  a  wall,  that  spot  is  always  weaker.  A 
fallen  ancestry  has  predisposed  us  to  fail.  To 
will  is  present  with  us,  but  how  to  perform  that 
which  is  good  we  find  not.  No  one  can  look 
thoughtfully  into  the  workings  of  his  own  nature 
without  realizing  the  terrible  paralysis  which  has 
befallen  it.  We  need  then  that  God  should 
counteract  our  fickleness  by  upholding  us  with 
His  steadfast,  or  constant,  Spirit  (Psa.  li.  10). 


211 


The  Canaanites  would  dwell  in  that  land. 

jFudg-es  i.  27. 

HOW  persistent  evil  habits  are  !  They  have 
dwelt  in  our  lives  so  long  that  they  dislike  being 
dislodged.  Why  should  they  quit  their  dwell- 
ing-place and  go  out  into  the  void  ?  Sometimes, 
at  the  beginning  of  our  Christian  life,  we  make 
a  feeble  effort  against  them,  and  hope  to  cast 
them  out;  but  they  stubbornly  resist.  When- 
ever a  remonstrance  is  addressed  to  us,  we  are 
apt  to  reply,  "Do  not  find  fault;  we  couldn't 
help  it.  These  Canaanites  are  self-willed  and 
persistent,  they  ze/^?//^  dwell  in  the  land." 

But  the  one  point  that  Israel  should  have  borne 
in  mind  was  that  they  had  no  right  there.  The 
land  was  not  theirs,  it  had  become  Israel's.  And, 
moreover,  God  was  prepared  to  drive  them  out ; 
so  that  His  people  would  have  no  fighting  to  do, 
but  only  to  chase  a  flying  foe.  One  man  was  to 
chase  a  thousand  (Josh,  xxiii.  10). 

So  these  evil  habits  have  no  right  to  persist  in 
the  believer's  life.  The  whole  soil  of  his  heart 
has  been  made  over  to  the  Son  of  God,  and  there 
should  be  no  part  left  to  weeds.  *'  Sin  shall  not 
have  dominion  over  you,"  said  the  Apostle.  Nor 
is  this  all.  The  Holy  Spirit  is  prepared  to  lust 
against  the  flesh,  that  we  may  not  fulfill  it  in  the 
lusts  thereof,  or  do  the  things  we  otherwise  would. 
The  hasty  temper  may  be  natural  to  you  :  but 
seeing  that  your  position  in  Christ  is  supernat- 
ural, this  Canaanite  must  be  conquered.  There 
is  a  complete  deliverance  possible  to  all  who  will 
open  their  hearts  to  the  might  of  the  Spirit  of 
God.  Talk  no  more  of  these  Canaanites  who 
would  stay  in  the  land ;  but  say  of  the  blessed 
Spirit,  "  If e  is  well  able  to  drive  them  out." 


212 


The  Lord  raised  them  up  judges. 

Judges  a.  i8. 

THIS  was  better  than  nothing.  It  was  better 
to  have  even  the  fitful  gleam  of  deliverance  than 
to  settle  down  under  a  monotony  of  servitude; 
but  how  much  better  it  would  have  been  if  their 
national  history  had  been  a  steady  progression 
from  one  degree  of  prosperity  to  another,  like 
the  sun  rising  toward  the  perfect  day  !  It  was 
of  God's  kindness  and  grace  that  the  judges 
created  these  temporary  respites ;  it  was  the  fault 
of  their  own  infidelity  and  sin  that  they  were  not 
always  delivered. 

This  fitful  life  is  too  often  the  experience  of 
the  believer.  We  have  our  Gideons,  and  Baraks, 
and  Samsons ;  times  of  revival,  times  of  deep  and 
blessed  experience,  followed  by  backsliding  and 
relapse ;  times  when  the  flood-tide  of  grace  rises 
high  in  our  soul,  to  be  succeeded  by  the  ebb, 
with  long  stretches  of  desert  sand.  Thank  God 
for  the  judges;  but  be  on  the  alert  for  the  reign 
of  the  kings,  for  David  and  Solomon,  Josiah  and 
Hezekiah— ^<?r  the  reig7i  of  the  King. 

The  days  of  the  judges  were  those  in  which 
there  was  no  king  over  Israel.  The  fitfulness  of 
our  experience  is  often  attributable  to  our  failure 
to  recognize  the  kingship  of  Jesus.  We  worship 
other  gods — the  gods  of  the  nations  around  ;  the 
idols  of  the  market-place,  the  studio,  the  camp, 
and  the  bar.  The  aims  and  practices  of  the 
worldly  and  ungodly  too  much  engross  our 
thoughts,  and  sway  our  behavior.  Alas  for  us  ! 
Is  it  strange  that  God  leaves  us  to  reap  much  bit- 
terness, recalling  us  when  He  can,  but  longing  to 
be  able  to  do  some  permanent  work  of  salvation 
and  edification  ?  Oh,  let  us  gladly  accord  Him 
what  is  His  right,  to  "sit  and  rule  upon  His 
throne." 


213 


/  have  a  message  from  God  unto  thee. 

Judges  Hi.  20. 

GOD'S  Messages  are  often  secret. — When 
Eglon  was  assured  that  Ehud  had  brought  a 
Divine  message,  which  could  only  be  delivered 
in  secret,  *'a  secret  errand"  (19),  he  fearlessly 
bade  all  his  retinue  go  forth  from  the  audience 
chamber.  And  in  utter  loneliness  the  one  passed 
to  the  other  the  message  of  death.  So  there  are 
crises  in  our  lives  when  God's  messengers  bring 
us  the  secret  message,  in  which  none  can  intrude 
or  interfere. 

God's  Messages  must  be  received  with  rever- 
ere7ice. — When  Ehud  said,  ''I  have  a  message 
for  thee,"  Eglon  rose  out  of  his  seat.  This  was 
a  mark  of  respect,  the  attitude  of  attention.  It  is 
with  similar  awe  that  we  should  ever  wait  for  the 
revelation  of  the  Divine  will.  "  What  saith  my 
Lord  unto  His  servant  ?  " 

God^s  Messages  leap  out  from  unexpected 
quarters. — Ehud  was  left-handed  ;  his  sword  was 
therefore  on  his  right  side,  and  he  appeared  un- 
armed. No  one  dreamed  of  looking  for  his 
sword,  except  on  his  left  side ;  he  was  therefore 
allowed  to  pass  unchallenged  into  the  presence 
of  the  king.  So  Nathan  strode  into  David's  pres- 
ence, who  thought  his  sin  was  undiscovered,  and 
said,  "Thou  art  the  man."  Cultivate  this  sur- 
prise with  sinners. 

God's  Messages  are  sharp  as  a  two-edged 
sword,  and  cause  death. — A  scimitar  is  sharp  at 
the  edge,  and  blunt  at  the  back  to  strike ;  whilst 
a  two-edged  sword  is  made  to  pierce.  God's 
Word  pierces  as  a  two-edged  sword  to  the  divid- 
ing of  soul  and  spirit  in  the  recesses  of  the  being, 
and  is  a  discerner  of  the  thoughts  and  intents  of 
the  heart.  When  the  Eglon  of  self  has  received 
its  death-wound,  the  glad  trumpet  of  freedom  is 
blown  on  the  hills. 

214 


The  journey  that  thou  takest  shall  not  be  for 
thine  honor.  Judges  iv.  9. 

BARAK  preferred  the  inspiration  of  Deborah's 
presence  to  the  invisible  but  certain  help  of  Al- 
mighty God.  It  was  Jehovah  who  had  com- 
manded him  to  draw  his  forces  toward  the  River 
Kishon,  and  had  promised  to  deliver  Sisera  into 
his  hand.  But  he  seemed  unable  to  rise  to  the 
splendor  of  the  situation.  If  only  he  could  have 
Deborah  beside  him  he  would  go,  but  otherwise 
not.  He  is  mentioned  in  Heb.  xi.  as  one  of  the 
heroes  of  faith ;  but  his  faith  lay  rather  in 
Deborah's  influence  with  God  than  in  his  own. 
Thus  he  missed  the  crown  of  that  great  day  of 
victory. 

It  is  the  mark  of  the  carnal  Christian  that  he 
has  no  direct  dealings  with  God  for  himself,  but 
must  needs  deal  with  Him  through  the  medium 
of  another's  prayers,  and  words,  and  leadership. 
Barak  must  have  Deborah.  It  is  faith,  though 
greatly  attenuated  and  reduced  by  the  opaque- 
ness of  the  medium  through  which  it  passes. 
Such  do  not  attain  "  unto  the  first  three."  God 
cannot  honor  them  as  He  does  those  who  have 
absolutely  no  help  or  hope  save  in  Himself. 
"Them  that  honor  Me  I  will  honor;  and  those 
that  despise  Me  shall  be  lightly  esteemed." 

If  God  tells  you  to  go  alone  to  a  work,  be  sure 
and  obey.  Go,  at  whatever  cost.  Dare  to  stand 
by  yourself  if  God  is  with  you.  In  such  hours 
we  realize  what  Jesus  meant  when  He  said, 
"Whosoever  shall  say  unto  this  mountain.  Be 
thou  taken  up  and  cast  into  the  sea ;  and  shall 
not  doubt  in  his  heart,  but  shall  believe  that  what 
he  saith  cometh  to  pass,  he  shall  have  it."  Yet 
if  you  are  unbelieving,  your  unbelief  cannot 
make  God's  faith  of  none  effect.  He  abideth 
faithful.  He  cannot  deny  Himself.  He  will 
still  deliver  Israel. 

215 


Let  them  that  love  Him  be  as  the  sun  when  he 
goeth  forth  in  his  might.  Judges  v.  31. 

SO  sang  Deborah ;  and  we  may  take  up  her 
strain,  making  it  our  prayer  for  all  that  love  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity. 

We  desire  it  for  His  sake. — It  cannot  be  for 
His  glory  that  His  followers  should  be  weak- 
kneed  and  decrepit,  waning  and  flickering,  back- 
sliding and  inconstant.  Men  will  judge  Him  by 
them,  and  will  count  His  light  a  vanishing  lumi- 
nary if  He  cannot  maintain  the  glow  and  fire  in 
those  that  follow  Him.  Besides,  how  great  the 
anguish  of  His  heart  must  be  when  those  on  whom 
He  has  expended  pains  and  care  deceive  and  fail 
Him! 

We  desire  it  for  their  sakes. — Think  of  the 
beneficent  ministry  of  the  sun — awakening  bird 
and  blossom ;  painting  the  rich  colors  of  natural 
beauty ;  ripening  fruits ;  gladdening  children  and 
grandsires  ;  carrying  everywhere  healing  with  his 
beams.  If  he  were  conscious  of  the  good  he 
imparts,  what  blessedness  would  be  his  !  Would 
he  grudge  the  expenditure  of  his  vitalizing  forces, 
when  from  millions  of  upturned  lips  he  heard 
himself  blessed?  Such  may  the  bliss  of  the 
Christian  worker  be  if,  without  diminution  of 
light  and  heat,  his  life  grows  to  the  perfect  day. 
Blessed  are  they  who  bless.  If  it  is  happy  to  re- 
ceive, it  is  far  happier  to  impart.  '•  Remember 
the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  He  said,  It  is 
more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive." 

We  desire  it  for  the  sake  of  others. — The 
world  is  sunless  enough  !  Many  are  perishing 
for  a  bath  of  sunshine  !  Darkness  broods  chill 
and  deathly.  Let  no  clouds  dim  your  pathway, 
or,  if  they  do,  transmute  them  to  gold.  Shine 
forth,  ye  righteous,  in  the  kingdom  of  your 
Father,  satellites  of  the  greater  central  Sun  of 
Righteousness ! 

216 


And  the  Lord  looked  upon  him  and  said,  Go  in 
this  thy  might.  Judges  vi.  14. 

THE  strength-giving  power  of  a  look  from  the 
eyes  of  Christ !  Gideon  was  weak  enough.  He 
said,  quite  naturally,  "  My  family  is  the  poorest 
in  Manasseh,  and  I  am  the  least  in  my  father's 
house"  (ver.  15,  r.  v.).  But  from  the  moment 
of  that  look,  accompanied  by  that  summons,  he 
arose  in  a  strength  that  never  afterward  faltered. 
How  truly  "God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things 
of  the  world  to  confound  the  wise  ;  and  the  weak 
things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  things  which 
are  mighty." 

//  was  a  look  of  expectation. — Gideon  felt  that 
the  angel  expected  him  to  save  Israel.  It  is  a 
great  matter  to  excite  hope  in  a  man.  Tell  him 
that  you  are  anticipating  some  noble  deed  from 
him,  and  you  may  light  a  spark  that  will  set  his 
whole  soul  aglow.  It  is  of  immense  importance 
to  stir  the  timid  and  retiring  with  fresh  concep- 
tions of  the  possibilities  of  their  lives. 

It  was  a  look  of  encouragement. — Those  gentle, 
loving  eyes  said,  as  though  they  spoke,  "I  will 
be  with  thee ;  do  not  hesitate  to  look  for  Me  in 
every  hour  of  need."  Such  looks  Christ  still 
gives  us  across  the  battlefields  of  life ;  and  if  our 
eyes  are  fixed  upon  Him,  we  shall  surely  hear 
Him  saying  to  us,  '*  My  grace  is  sufficient  for 
thee  :  go  in  this  thy  might !  " 

//  was  a  look  of  strength-giving  might. — It 
carried  help  with  it.  On  its  beam  new  spiritual 
force  sped  from  the  speaker  to  the  listener ;  from 
captain  to  cadet.  So  from  the  excellent  glory 
one  look  from  Jesus  will  bring  reinforcement. 
As  He  looks  on  us  He  imparts  His  strength  to  us, 
and  says.  Go  in  this  thy  might.  "Be  strong  in 
the  Lord,  and  in  the  power  of  His  might." 
217 


A  cake  of  barley  bread. 

Judges  vii.  ij. 

LIKE  most  dreams,  incoherent  and  grotesque  ! 
Whoever  heard  of  a  cake  of  barley  bread  upset- 
ting a  tent !  To  the  dreamer  and  his  comrade, 
there  was  no  sense  in  it.  But  how  much  it  meant 
to  the  two  Hebrews,  who  had  crept  up  to  the 
other  side  of  the  curtain,  in  the  thick  darkness, 
and  were  drinking  in  each  word  ! 

The  dream  was  very  humbling. — It  brought 
Gideon  back  to  the  simplicity  and  helplessness  of 
his  own  resources.  In  the  gathering  of  these 
crowds  of  warriors,  in  the  notoriety  he  had 
achieved,  in  the  loyalty  of  the  three  hundred, 
there  was  much  to  inflate  his  pride.  Therefore 
God  brought  him  face  to  face  with  himself.  He 
was  only  a  cake  of  barley  bread  at  the  best.  Be- 
fore God  can  uplift,  use,  and  anoint  us,  He 
must  show  us  what  we  are,  humbling  and  empty- 
ing us,  bringing  us  into  the  dust  of  death.  Be- 
fore God  can  use  thee  to  work  a  great  deliver- 
ance. He  must  convince  thee  of  being  only  a 
cake  of  barley  bread .  ' '  Five  barley  loaves,  and 
two  jw^// fishes." 

//  was  full  of  hope. — A  cake  of  barley  bread 
might  be  a  worthless  thing ;  but  if  God  were  be- 
hind it,  it  would  upset  a  tent  !  So  when  the 
weakest  life  is  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  Al- 
mighty, and  taken  in  hand  by  Him,  it  becomes 
mighty  to  the  pulling  down  of  strongholds. 

It  is  full  of  teaching. — How  much  has  to  be 
learned  by  us  on  these  lines  !  We  are  too  strong 
for  God.  We  vaunt  our  might,  we  count  our 
warriors,  we  magnify  our  generalship.  This 
may  not  be  !  So  God  brings  us  down  to  the 
brook  and  tests  us  there ;  and  reduces  our  force 
to  three  hundred  men,  and  ourselves  to  barley- 
cakes,  and  there  gets  the  victory  with  His  right 
hand,  and  His  holy  arm. 
218 


As  thou  art,  so  were  they  ;  each  one  resembled  the 
children  of  a  king.  Judges  viU.  i8. 

IT  was  a  magnificent  tribute  to  the  royal  bear- 
ing of  this  illustrious  family.  All  the  children 
had  the  stamp  of  kingliness  on  them,  which  had 
impressed  even  these  barbaric  princes.  Would 
that  a  similar  confession  could  be  extorted  from 
those  who  behold  the  members  of  the  royal  house 
of  Jesus  ! 

The  children  of  a  king  !  It  is  within  the 
reach  of  any  who  aspire  to  it.  By  the  second 
birth  we  become  the  children  of  God,  joint-heirs 
with  Christ,  and  the  Spirit  witnesses  to  our  son- 
ship,  teaching  us  to  cry,  Abba,  Father.  As 
children  of  the  great  King  we  should  bear  the 
sign  of  our  high  lineage  in  our  bearing  and  walk. 

Royalty  of  Demeanor. — There  is  an  aristo- 
cratic bearing  in  the  scions  of  noble  houses 
among  men.  The  head  is  lifted  high,  the  mien 
is  proud,  the  manner  distant  and  reserved.  But 
in  the  family  of  God,  meekness  and  lowliness, 
humility  and  contriteness,  are  marks  of  family 
likeness.  We  walk  as  Jesus  walked,  of  whom 
the  Baptist  said,  "  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God  !  " 

Royalty  of  Dress. — The  king  is  marked  by  the 
brilliant  orders  glittering  on  his  breast.  Purple 
and  ermine  become  those  who  date  their  descent 
from  a  line  of  kings.  But  the  emblem  of  our 
family  is  the  cross;  our  color  is  scarlet;  our 
insignia  is  the  towel  and  basin  that  speak  of 
lowly  service. 

Royalty  of  Occupation. — The  earthly  king  does 
nothing  servile.  He  is  waited  on  with  lowly 
obeisance.  But  they  who  are  of  the  same  family 
as  Jesus  are  found  performing  the  lowliest  acts 
of  service,  in  jails,  hospitals,  and  slums.  In 
this  they  follow  closely  on  the  steps  of  Him  who 
went  about  doing  good. 

219 


Their  hearts  inclined  to  follow  Abimelech  ;  for 
they  said,  He  is  our  brother.  Jtidges  ix.  3. 

IS  not  this  the  reason  why  God  has  set  us  in 
families?  Had  He  so  chosen,  each  of  us  might 
have  been  created  alone  as  Adam  was,  and  sent 
out  with  no  special  connection  with  others  of 
our  race.  But  instead,  we  are  closely  connected. 
It  is  very  rarely  that  a  man  is  so  utterly  bereaved 
as  to  be  destitute  of  some  relative. 

Between  a  man  and  his  brother  there  is  a 
special  tie.  It  may  be  truly  said,  in  the  case  of 
brothers,  that  a  doorway  has  been  made  through 
the  walls  which  ordinarily  part  men,  which  may 
be  bricked  up  or  filled  with  debris ;  but  the  wall 
there  will  always  be  thinner  than  anywhere  else, 
and  some  day  the  doorway  may  be  opened  for 
the  passage  of  the  messenger  of  peace.  Men 
are  always  more  inclined  to  follow  the  man  of 
whom  they  can  say,  *'He  is  our  brother." 
Brotherhood,  sisterhood,  relationship  of  any 
kind,  is  therefore  a  very  precious  talent;  and  it 
becomes  us  solemnly  to  ask  ourselves  whether  it 
has  been  put  to  use.  Have  you  ever  spoken  or 
written  to  your  brother  or  sister  about  Christ  ? 

As  soon  as  Andrew  had  found  Jesus,  he  started 
off  to  find  his  own  brother  Simon ;  and  Simon 
was  glad  to  follow  him  because  he  was  his 
brother.  Had  another  tried,  it  is  as  likely  as  not 
that  he  would  have  repelled  him.  But  what 
could  he  say  to  the  man  who  had  shared  his  child- 
hood's sports,  and  had  helped  him  haul  in  a  net 
of  fish  many  a  time  after  a  night  of  hard  work  ? 

This  is  the  reason  that  Jesus  has  so  strong  a 
hold  on  human  hearts.  He  is  our  brother,  bone 
of  our  bone ;  not  ashamed  to  call  us  brethren ; 
and  this  constitutes  a  moving  argument  why  we 
should  be  inclined  to  follow  Him. 


220 


His  soul  was  grieved  for  the  misery  of  Israel. 

Judges  X.  lb. 

THIS  is  a  very  strong  way  of  stating  the  piti- 
fulness  of  God.  It  is  applying  to  Him  terms 
borrowed  from  our  own  experiences  as  men ;  and 
in  no  other  way  could  we  realize  the  tender  love 
and  compassion  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Israel's 
miseries  were  due  to  the  sins  with  which  their 
history  was  marked  ;  but  God's  love  brooded 
over  them,  longing  to  deliver. 

This  is  the  explanation  of  God^ s  first  words  to 
Ada?n. — One  of  the  versions  substitutes  for 
"  Where  art  thou?  "  the  words  *'  Alas  for  thee  !  " 
as  though  God  were  treading  the  glades  of  Eden 
with  a  broken  heart,  grieved  for  the  misery  of 
His  children. 

This  was  the  lament  of  Gods  Spirit  through- 
out the  Old  Testa?ne?it. — *'  How  shall  I  give  thee 
up,  Ephraim?  Mine  heart  is  turned  within  Me; 
My  compassions  are  kindled  together."  "O 
Israel,  thou  hast  destroyed  thyself!  " 

This  led  to  the  Incarnation  and  Passion  of 
our  Lord. — He  looked,  and  there  was  no  man  ; 
He  wondered  that  there  was  none  to  help,  there- 
fore His  own  arm  brought  salvation. 

This  characterized  our  Lord's  earthly  life. — 
When  He  beheld  the  city,  and  foresaw  all  the 
evil  that  would  accrue  to  it,  He  could  not  hold 
back  His  tears.  "  His  soul  was  grieved."  In 
all  likelihood,  you,  my  reader,  may  be  suffering 
keenly  the  result  of  your  own  mistakes  and  sins 
in  earlier  life.  The  troubles  that  hem  you  in  are 
the  direct  outcome  of  your  having  forsaken  God. 
He  could,  and  would,  have  saved  you;  but  you 
made  it  impossible,  because  you  withdrew  your- 
self from  His  care.  And  now  He  grieves  over 
you.  If  only  you  would  forsake  your  sins  and 
turn  to  Him,  He  would  assuredly  raise  up  a 
Jephthah  for  your  help. 

221 


A7id  Jephthah  sent  messengers  unto  the  king  of 
the  children  of  Ammon.  Judges  xL  J2. 

JEPHTHAH'S  procedure  was  admirable  in  his 
quiet  expostulation,  before  resorting  to  force  in 
the  defence  of  home  and  country  against  the 
aggression  of  Amalek.  It  was  quite  clear  that 
Ammon  had  no  right  to  the  lands  of  which 
Israel,  at  God's  command,  had  dispossessed  the 
Amorites.  **Thou  doest  me  wrong  to  war 
against  me."  But  before  repelling  the  invasion, 
Jephthah  did  his  best  to  show  the  unreasonable- 
ness of  Ammon' s  pretext. 

Thus  our  Lord  expostulated  with  the  servant 
that  smote  Him.  **If  I  have  spoken  evil,  bear 
witness  of  the  evil ;  but  if  well,  why  smitest 
thou  Me?" 

It  is  in  this  way  that  we  are  to  act  still.  **  If 
thy  brother  sin  against  thee,  go,  show  him  his 
fault  between  thee  and  him  alone  :  if  he  hear 
thee,  thou  hast  gained  thy  brother." 

In  the  Master's  judgment,  the  wrongdoer  in- 
jured himself  much  more  than  any  one  else  ;  and 
therefore  earnest  words  of  expostulation  were 
desirable  to  stay  him  from  his  own  destruction. 

How  admirable  it  would  be  if  we  would  act  in 
such  a  spirit  of  meek  conciliation  !  Then  our 
cause  might  fairly  be  submitted  to  the  Judge  of 
all  (27)  ;  and  we  should  be  strong  in  after-times 
to  stand  for  the  sacred  rights  of  others. 

There  is  no  need  to  bribe  God's  help,  as 
Jephthah  did,  by  his  rash  promise.  He  will  give 
gladly  and  freely  out  of  His  own  heart  of  love 
the  help  and  deliverance  we  need,  if  only  our 
cause  is  rightly  ordered  before  Him.  "  Who 
delivered,  .  .  .  and  doth  deliver ;  .  .  .  He 
will  yet  deliver  "  (2  Cor.  i.  10).  When  we  are 
right  with  our  fellow  men,  we  can  confidently 
count  on  God's  almighty  helpfulness. 


222 


And  he  said,  Sibboleth. 

Judges  xii.  6. 

IT  was  only  the  omission  of  "  h,"  but  it  meant 
the  death  of  the  man  who  missed  it.  One  little 
letter,  and  the  whole  wonder  and  beauty  of  a 
human  life  was  forfeited.  It  is  only  recently  that 
the  peace  of  an  empire  was  in  jeopardy,  because 
a  full-stop  was  misplaced.  This  scene  has  be- 
come proverbial  of  those  who  exact  compliance 
with  some  arbitrary  test,  before  admitting  their 
fellows  into  their  sect  or  church.  But  how  thank- 
ful we  should  be,  that  our  admission  to  the  privi- 
lege of  the  Kingdom  of  God  does  not  depend 
upon  our  pronunciation  ;  that  the  reality  of  the 
new-birth  is  not  tested  by  the  accuracy  with 
which  we  utter  the  creed;  that  we  shall  not  be 
excluded  from  the  gates  of  the  New  Jerusalem 
because  we  fail  in  the  utterance  of  an  "  h  "  ! 

Our  acceptance  with  God  does  not  depend  on 
how  much  we  believe.  The  woman  who  was 
healed  had  very  inadequate  notions  of  faith  and 
Christ.  She  thought  that  His  garment  would 
communicate  blessing,  yet  she  was  cured.  The 
dying  thief  had  but  a  glimmering  ray  of  knowl- 
edge of  the  majesty  and  power  of  Jesus,  but  he 
entered  Paradise  in  His  company.  The  prime 
necessity  with  us,  is  not  faith  in  the  sense  of 
creed,  but  as  standing  for  trust.  It  is  not  our 
belief  about  Christ,  but  our  trust  in  Him ;  not 
our  ability  to  answer  the  questions  of  the  Cate- 
chism, but  our  coming  to  Him,  and  finding  rest 
to  our  souls — this  only  is  necessary  to  pass  us 
across  the  fords  of  Jordan.  *'  If  thou  shalt  con- 
fess with  thy  mouth  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  shalt  be- 
lieve in  thine  heart  that  God  hath  raised  Him 
from  the  dead,  thou  shalt  be  saved.  For  with 
the  heart  man  believeth  unto  righteousness ;  and 
with  the  mouth  confession  is  made  unto  salva- 
tion "  (Rom.  X.  lo). 

223 


If  the  Lord  were  pleased  to  kill  us^  He  would  not 
have  received  an  offering.  Judges  xiU.  aj. 

MANOAH  was  a  pessimist,  given  to  dark  fore- 
boding, fond  of  anticipating  misfortune.  So  soon 
as  he  realized  that  he  had  seen  the  face  of  God, 
he  made  sure  that  his  wife  and  he  would  die. 
His  wife,  on  the  contrary,  was  prone  to  look  on 
the  bright  side  of  things,  and  she  must  have  been 
an  admirable  help-meet.  How  much  some  of  us 
owe  to  the  temperament  of  those  with  whom  we 
live  !  Many  a  time  would  Christian  sit  down  to 
die,  and  succumb  in  the  dark  waters  of  the  river, 
if  it  were  not  for  Hopeful,  who  pierces  the  gloom, 
and  beholds  the  light  shining  beyond  the  cloud. 

Often  enough  Foreboding  whispers,  "We  shall 
surely  die."  It  is  the  voice  of  conscience,  dread- 
ing the  result  of  sin.  It  is  the  voice  of  mistrust, 
which  fails  to  look  beyond  the  hills  for  its  help. 
It  is  the  voice  of  human  frailty.  At  such  times 
let  us  look  back  and  recount  the  blessings  of  the 
past.  Did  not  God  receive  our  burnt-offering  ? 
Did  He  not  conspicuously  answer  our  prayers? 
Did  He  not  give  His  only  begotten  Son  ?  Has 
He  not  led  us  by  His  right  hand  and  holy  arm  ? 
Has  He  not  delivered  us  in  seven  troubles?  Be- 
sides, has  He  not  pledged  Himself  for  the  fu- 
ture ?  Has  He  not  showed  us  '  *  all  these  things ' '  ? 
It  is  impossible  to  believe  that  He  will  allow  us 
to  be  overwhelmed. 

His  love  in  time  past  forbids  me  to  think, 
He'll  leave  me  at  last  in  trouble  to  sink. 

Trust  Him,  O  suffering  saints,  doing  His  will 
in  the  teeth  of  opposition  and  hate  I  Fear  not 
the  faces  of  men ;  be  not  dismayed  before  their 
threats — He  is  with  you  to  deliver  you.  They 
may  fight  against  you,  but  they  shall  not  prevail ; 
their  proudest  threats  shall  fail  of  their  fulfill- 
ment. 

224 


Out  of  the  eater  came  forth  meat. 

Judges  xiv,  14. 

YOUNG  lions  roar  at  the  saints.  The  lion  of 
hell  gives  them  no  little  trouble.  Though  he  may 
not  come  upon  the  path  of  holiness — for  no  lion 
shall  be  there — yet  he  comes  very  near  it.  "  He 
goeth  about  like  a  roaring  line."  Temptation 
may  well  be  compared  to  the  attack  on  Samson 
by  the  young  lion  of  Timnath. 

The  lion's  carcase,  lying  where  Samson  had 
rent  and  cast  it,  became  the  home  of  honey-bees. 
And  as  the  hero  went  back  to  look  at  it  in  after- 
days,  he  obtained  meat  and  sweetness. 

How  apt  the  parable  !  Every  conquered  temp- 
tation yields  these  two  things — strength  and 
sweetness.  We  are  more  than  conquerors,  not 
only  vanquishing  the  foe,  but  dividing  the  spoils 
of  victory. 

//  yields  strength. — Each  time  we  overcome 
sin,  the  strength  of  the  temptation  passes  into 
our  hearts ;  as  the  Indian  warrior  supposes  that 
the  might  of  each  warrior  whom  he  levels  to  the 
dust,  enters  into  himself.  To  resist  impatience, 
makes  us  more  patient  in  proportion  to  the 
strength  of  the  temptation  we  resist.  *' Blessed 
is  the  man  that  endureth  temptation :  for  when 
he  is  tried,  he  shall  receive  the  crown  of  life, 
which  the  Lord  hath  promised  to  them  that  love 
Him." 

//  gives  sweetness. — There  is  a  new  gentleness 
to  those  who  have  been  tempted ;  a  humility,  a 
modesty,  a  consciousness  of  the  presence  of  God, 
through  whom  the  victory  has  been  secured ;  a 
new  zest  for  the  Word  of  God.  How  sweet  are 
thy  words  to  my  taste  !  sweeter  than  honey  and 
the  honeycomb.  The  life  that  is  hid  with  Christ 
in  God  is  full  of  sweetness  and  gentleness.  *  *  The 
fruit  of  the  Spirit  is  gentleness." 
225 


And  now  shall  I  die  for  thirst  i 

Judges  XV.  j8. 

IT  had  been  a  great  victory.  With  the  jaw- 
bone of  an  ass  Samson  had  smitten  a  thousand 
men.  But  he  knew  where  to  attribute  the  glory. 
It  was  not  he,  but  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which 
had  come  mightily  upon  him.  This  is  distinctly 
recognized  when  he  called  unto  God,  and  said, 
"Thou  hast  given  this  great  deliverance  by  my 
hand."  It  was  because  he  had  been  expending 
his  strength  for  God,  had  been,  so  to  speak, 
burned  up  by  the  Divine  fire,  that  he  was  able  to 
claim  God's  interposition  for  his  thirst. 

This  is  the  great  law  of  prayer.  We  have  no 
right  to  count  on  God  in  the  agony  of  a  crisis, 
unless  we  have  been  walking  in  fellowship  with 
Him  previously,  or  are  exhausted  in  fighting  His 
battles.  There  is  nothing  that  we  may  not  claim 
of  Him  when  we  are  living  in  the  current  of  His 
life,  or  when  we  are  exhausted  in  His  service. 
"Thou  hast  given  this  great  deliverance  by  the 
hand  of  thy  servant ;  and  now  shall  I  die  for 
thirst?" 

God's  springs  burst  out  in  unlikely  spots.  He 
is  never  at  a  loss.  If  there  is  no  natural  spring. 
He  can  create  one.  If  all  around  the  mighty 
rocks  reflect  the  sultry  heat,  and  our  spirit  seems 
on  the  point  of  exhaustion,  then  in  the  wilderness 
He  will  cause  streams  to  break  out.  Be  of  good 
courage,  fainting  warrior  !  The  God  who  made 
thee,  and  has  used  thee,  knows  thy  frame,  and 
what  thou  needest  before  thou  askest.  Hereafter 
the  place  shall  be  known  as  "the  spring  of  him 
that  called !  "  He  can  cause  the  refreshing 
stream  to  pour  forth  from  the  flinty  rock ;  He 
can  turn  the  bitter  water  sweet  for  thee  to  drink 
thereof;  He  quenches  thy  soul-thirst  with  the 
water  of  life. 


226 


He  wist  not  that  the  Lord  was  departed  from 
hltn.  Judges  xvi.  20. 

BEWARE  of  unconscious  deterioration  !  Grey 
hairs  may  be  here  and  there  upon  us  without  our 
knowing  it.  The  Lord  may  be  gone  out  on  feet 
so  noiseless,  that  we  are  not  aware  that  His 
Spirit  has  glided  along  the  corridor,  and  through 
the  doorway,  whispering,  Let  us  depart. 

Deterioration  is  unconscious  because  it  is  so 
gradual.  The  rot  that  sets  in  on  autumn  fruit  is 
very  gradual.  The  damp  that  silences  the  violin 
or  piano  does  its  work  almost  imperceptibly. 
Satan  is  too  knowing  to  plunge  us  into  some  out- 
rageous sin  at  a  bound.  He  has  sappers  and 
miners  engaged  long  before  the  explosion,  in 
hollowing  subterranean  passages  through  the  soul, 
and  filling  them  with  explosives. 

Spiritual  declension  blunts  our  sensibility. 
The  first  act  of  the  burglar  is  to  gag  the  voice 
that  might  alarm,  and  poison  the  watch-dog.  So, 
sin  blinds  our  eyes,  and  dulls  our  keen  alertness 
to  the  presence  of  evil.  Thus,  the  stages  of  our 
relapse  are  obvious  to  all  eyes  but  our  own.  We 
are  drugged  as  we  are  being  carried  off  captives. 

The  progress  of  evil  within  us  is  a  matter  of 
unconsciousness,  largely  because  we  are  quick  to 
discover  reasons  to  justify  our  decadence.  We 
gloze  over  the  real  state  of  affairs.  We  call  sins 
by  other  names.  We  insist  on  considerations 
which  in  our  eyes  appear  to  justify  our  conduct. 
We  still  attend  to  our  religious  duties,  and  try  to 
persuade  ourselves  that  it  is  with  us  as  in  times 
past.  To  avoid  deterioration  we  must  ever  watch 
and  pray,  and  realize  that  we  are  the  temple  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Then  shall  the  peace  of  God  as  a 
sentry  guard  our  hearts  and  our  thoughts  in 
Christ  Jesus. 


827 


Dwell  with  me,  and  be  unto  me  a  priest. 

Judges  xvii.  lo. 

MEN  crave  for  a  priest.  In  every  age  of  the 
world's  history,  where  there  has  been  a  tent  indi- 
cating the  presence  of  human  life,  there  has  been 
an  altar  indicating  man's  consciousness  of  God, 
and  a  priest  suggesting  his  consciousness  of  un- 
worthiness  to  enter  into  the  Divine  presence. 
Man  has  perpetually  taken  one  of  his  fellows 
whose  character  seemed  less  blemished  than  that 
of  others,  and  after  setting  him  apart  with  special 
rites  from  the  ordinary  engagements  of  life,  has 
promised  him  maintenance  and  honor,  if  only  he 
will  act  as  priest.  Be  my  priest ;  say  for  me  to 
God  what  I  cannot  say.  The  sacrifices  offered 
by  thy  hands  are  more  likely  to  avail  with  Him 
than  those  rendered  by  mine. 

(i)  Let  us  beware  of  the  religion  which 
ignores  man^s  craving  for  a  priest. — The  world 
abounds  with  attempts  at  religious  systems,  from 
which  the  conception  of  the  priest  is  eliminated. 
These  reduce  the  worship  of  God  to  a  system  of 
high-thinking,  but  fail  to  deal  with  man's  con- 
sciousness of  sin,  and  his  yearning  for  a  settled 
basis  of  peace. 

(2)  Let  us  remember  that  all  human  priests 
must  ultimately  fail. — God  has  put  them  all  aside, 
setting  up  the  priesthood  of  the  blessed  Lord. 
**We  have  such  a  High  Priest,  who  is  set  on 
the  right  hand  of  the  throne  of  the  Majesty  in 
the  heavens ;  a  minister  of  the  sanctuary,  and  of 
the  true  tabernacle  which  the  Lord  pitched,  and 
not  man."  Stars  are  needless  when  the  sun  has 
arisen.  The  human  priesthood  is  rendered  un- 
necessary since  the  Son  of  God  has  passed  into 
the  heavens  to  be  a  priest  after  the  order  of 
Melchizedek.  No  one  has  a  right  to  pose  as 
priest  to  others,  except  in  the  sense  that  all 
Christians  are  such. 

228 


Ye  have  taken  away  my  gods,  and  the  priest. 

Judges  xviii.  24. 

WHATEVER  can  be  taken  from  us  has  the 
mark  and  signature  of  man  upon  it.  Since  the 
Jewish  priests  were  not  permitted  to  continue, 
by  reason  of  death,  it  was  evident  that  they  were 
men  at  the  best ;  and  nothing  that  man  makes  is 
adequate  to  supply  the  immortal  cravings  of  the 
soul  which,  having  come  from  God,  craves  for 
God. 

Change  cannot  take  away  our  High  Priest. — 
All  around  us  is  in  a  state  of  flux.  No  two  days 
in  the  most  brilliant  summer  are  quite  the  same. 
The  hues  are  deepening  toward  autumnal  decay. 
But  He  continueth  ever,  and  hath  an  unchange- 
able priesthood.  All  that  He  was  years  ago.  He 
is  still,  and  will  be.  What  to  our  forefathers, 
that  to  us — "  the  same  yesterday,  and  to-day,  and 
forever." 

The  concerns  of  other  souls  cannot  take  Him 
away. — It  is  not  difficult  to  conceive  of  the  at- 
tention of  a  human  priest  being  diverted  from 
those  who  once  claimed  all  his  help,  to  fresh  in- 
terests and  younger  generations.  But,  however 
many  they  be  who  flock  as  doves  to  the  windows 
of  Christ's  mercy,  they  will  never  be  able  to 
divert  an  atom  of  His  love  and  sympathy  from 
us. 

Sins  and  failure  cannot  rob  us  of  Him. — In- 
deed, they  make  Him  nearer,  dearer,  more  abso- 
lutely necessary.  The  bands  of  Danites  left 
Micah  wailing  :  when  he  wanted  the  comfort  of 
his  priest  most,  lo,  he  was  gone ;  but  neither 
principalities,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to 
come,  nor  powers,  nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  any 
other  creature,  can  separate  us  from  Him  who 
ever  liveth  to  make  intercession.  "Having  a 
High  Priest  over  the  house  of  God,  let  us  draw 
near  with  a  true  heart  in  full  assurance  of  faith." 
229 


And  it  came  to  pass  in  those  days  when  there  was 
no  king  in  Israel.  Judges  xix.  i. 

IT  will  be  sufficient  to  ponder  these  words, 
which  occur  four  times  in  this  book,  without 
reading  further  in  this  terrible  chapter,  which 
shows  the  depths  of  depravity  to  which  man  may- 
sink  apart  from  the  grace  of  God.  Where 
Christ  is  not  enthroned  as  King,  drunkenness, 
impurity,  cruelty,  selfishness,  are  supreme,  and 
pursue  their  ravages  unchecked.  How  different 
where  He  reigns  in  righteousness,  and  where  His 
will  is  done  as  it  is  done  in  heaven  ! 

The  Book  of  Judges  depicts  the  state  of  the 
heart  which  has  not  admitted  the  Kingship  of 
our  Saviour.  Where  there  is  no  recognition  of 
this,  and  a  man  does  as  he  likes,  then  the  heart 
breeds  all  manner  of  uncleanness  ;  and  sin  when 
it  is  finished  bringeth  forth  death. 

In  connection  with  the  present  marvellous 
movement  afoot  in  our  colleges,  five  hundred 
Japanese  students  met  recently  under  the  motto, 
*'  Make  Jesus  King."  Oh  that  this  might  be  our 
life-motto  !     We  must  crown  Him  lord  of  all. 

Let  young  men  and  women,  who  may  read 
these  words,  specially  ponder  this  suggestion. 
Perpetual  failure  in  life  indicates  failure  in  con- 
secration. If  you  are  continually  broken  in  upon 
by  raids  of  evil,  it  is  certain  that  you  have  never 
enthroned  the  Son  of  God.  He  is  never  Saviour 
in  the  fullness  of  His  power  till  He  is  acknowl- 
edged King.  Directly  the  coronation  has  taken 
place.  He  assumes  the  responsibility  of  putting 
down  all  rule,  authority,  and  power;  overcoming i 
the  evils  that  had  held  sway ;  and  bringing  every  ' 
thought  into  captivity.  Such  are  the  warnings 
and  appeals  of  this  chapter  and  the  next.  "  Make 
Jesus  King." 


230 


And  put  away  evil  from  Israel. 

Judges  XX.  ij. 

THE  earnestness  and  promptness  with  which 
Israel  dealt  with  and  put  away  this  evil  thing 
were  very  commendable.  They  had  gathered 
from  all  the  land,  even  from  Gilead  beyond  the 
Jordan.  They  were  knit  together  in  a  perfect 
unity  of  feeling  and  action.  They  resolved  to 
subordinate  all  things  beside  to  the  excision  of 
this  evil. 

So  must  it  be  in  the  Church.  The  Lord  Him- 
self took  Ananias  and  Sapphira  out  of  the  infant 
Church;  and  the  Apostle  very  earnestly  besought 
and  commanded  the  Corinthians  to  put  away 
from  among  them  the  wicked  person,  who  had 
committed  a  sin  that  would  not  be  named  among 
the  Gentiles.  *'  Christ  our  Passover  is  sacrificed 
for  us ;  therefore  let  us  keep  the  feast,  not  with 
old  leaven,  neither  with  the  leaven  of  malice  and 
wickedness;  but  with  the  unleavened  bread  of 
sincerity  and  truth"  (i  Cor.  v.  7,  8). 

At  the  close  of  this  age  God  will  send  forth 
His  angels,  to  sever  the  wicked  from  among  the 
just,  and  to  cast  them  into  the  furnace  of  fire. 

In  our  own  life  it  is  impossible  altogether  to 
avoid  contact  with  such  people.  Indeed,  to  do 
so,  as  the  Apostle  says  truly,  we  must  go  out  of 
the  world.  But  we  can  abstain  from  their  friend- 
ship and  company.  It  is  an  altogether  different 
thing  to  have  dealings  with  a  worldly  man  in 
business,  and  to  admit  him  into  bosom  fellow- 
ship and  comradeship  in  our  leisure  hours.  The 
first  is  permissible,  but  not  the  second  ;  else  our 
companions  will  seduce  us  from  our  loyalty  to 
God.  Beware  of  taking  on  the  color  of  the 
ground  on  which  you  lie.  **  I  pray  not  that 
Thou  shouldest  take  them  out  of  the  world,  but 
that  Thou  shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil." 


231 


We  have  sworn  by  the  Lord. 

Judges  xxi.  7. 

AMID  the  gross  evils  of  this  time,  the  people 
of  Israel  were  very  tenacious  of  their  vows, 
which  had  been  ratified  in  the  presence  of  God, 
and  under  the  solemn  sanctions  of  the  Taber- 
nacle. Because  they  had  sworn  not  to  give  their 
daughters  in  marriage  to  Benjamin,  they  had  to 
devise  an  expedient  to  obtain  wives  for  the  six 
hundred  who  had  escaped  massacre,  that  the  tribe 
should  not  become  extinct. 

The  same  spirit  was  manifested  by  Jephthah, 
when  he  said,  "  I  have  opened  my  mouth  to  the 
Lord  ;  I  cannot  go  back."  No  doubt  there  was 
the  implied  conviction  that  God  would  avenge 
the  violation  of  an  oath  solemnly  taken  in  His 
name. 

What  new  emphasis  is  added  by  this  concep- 
tion to  the  words  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews  : 
**  God,  willing  to  show  unto  the  heirs  of  promise 
the  immutability  of  His  counsel,  confirmed  it  by 
an  oath."  Since  He  could  swear  by  no  greater. 
He  swore  by  Himself,  that  He  would  bless  and 
multiply  Abraham  and  his  seed.  If  then  you 
are  of  the  faith  of  faithful  Abraham,  you  have 
the  right  to  claim  the  fulfillment  of  God's  promise 
in  this  double  aspect :  He  will  bless  and  multiply. 
And  it  is  impossible  for  Him  to  alter  or  fail  in 
the  word  He  hath  spoken. 

The  Psalmist  said  that  God's  statutes,  /.  <f.,  the 
things  which  He  established,  were  His  songs. 
Surely  we  have  every  reason  to  sing,  who  know 
that  the  covenant  of  God's  love  is  as  steadfast  as 
His  throne.  Let  us  turn  His  statutes  into  songs. 
He  has  given  us  exceeding  great  and  precious 
promises;  and  we  can  rejoice  that  "All  the 
promises  of  God  in  Him  are  yea,  and  in  Him 
Amen,  unto  the  glory  of  God  by  us."  **The 
word  of  the  Lord  endureth  forever." 

232 


Call  me  not  Naomi ^  call  me  Mara. 

Ruth  i.  20. 

SO  she  spoke,  as  many  have  spoken  since,  not 
knowing  that  God's  ways  are  ways  of  pleasant- 
ness and  all  His  paths  peace,  when  they  are  not 
isolated  from  the  plan  of  our  life,  but  considered 
as  parts  of  the  whole.  We  cannot  pronounce  on 
any  part  of  God's  dealing  with  us  until  the  entire 
plan  has  been  allowed  to  work  itself  out.  How 
grieved  God's  Spirit  must  be,  who  is  lovingly  do- 
ing His  best,  when  He  hears  these  words  of  mur- 
muring and  complaint !  Let  us  lift  the  vail,  and 
notice  the  pleasant  things  in  Naomi's  life. 

True,  her  husband  and  sons  were  dead;  but 
their  deaths  in  a  foreign  land  had  left  her  free  to 
come  back  to  her  people  and  her  God ;  to  nestle 
again  under  the  wings  of  Jehovah ;  and  to  share 
the  advantages  of  the  Tabernacle. 

True,  Orpah  had  gone  back.  Mahlon  and 
Chilion  were  both  buried  in  Moab ;  but  she  had 
Ruth,  who  was  better  to  her  than  seven  sons. 

True,  she  had  no  male  child  to  perpetuate  her 
name ;  but  the  little  Obed  would,  within  a  few 
months,  be  nestling  in  her  aged  arms,  and  laugh- 
ing into  her  withered  face. 

True,  she  was  very  poor ;  but  it  was  through 
her  poverty  that  Ruth  was  brought  first  into  con- 
tact with  that  good  man,  Boaz;  and,  beside, 
there  was  yet  a  little  patrimony  which  pertained 
to  her. 

Yes,  Naomi,  like  thousands  more,  thou  must 
take  back  thy  words.  Thou  didst  deal  bitterly 
with  thine  own  happiness  in  leaving  the  Land  of 
Promise  for  Moab ;  but  God  dealt  pleasantly 
with  thee  in  thy  return  and  latter  end.  "Be- 
hold, the  eye  of  the  Lord  is  upon  them  that  fear 
Him,  upon  them  that  hope  in  His  mercy." 


Under  whose  wings  thou  art  come  to  trust. 

Ruth  it.  12. 

IN  after-days  this  was  a  favorite  image  with 
David  in  his  wanderings  and  escapes  among  those 
same  hills.  Perhaps  he  had  received  it  as  a 
fragrant  legacy  from  the  life  of  his  good  ances- 
tor, Boaz.  At  least  on  one  occasion  Jesus  em- 
ployed it  in  saying  that  He  had  wished  to  gather 
Jerusalem  as  a  hen  her  chicks. 

How  warm,  cosy,  and  safe,  the  chickens  are 
when  they  have  gathered  under  the  wings  of  the 
brooding  hen  !  It  must  be  a  very  heaven  for 
them.  The  storm  may  roll  through  the  sky,  the 
heavy  raindrops  fall,  the  hawk  may  hover  above, 
poising  itself  on  its  wings ;  but  the  body  of  the 
parent-bird  is  interposed  between  them  and  all 
that  threatens.  What  wonder  that  the  Psalmist 
said  that  he  would  hide  under  the  shadow  of 
God's  wings  till  all  his  calamities  were  overpast ! 

Are  you  sheltering  there?  Have  you  come 
out  of  the  storm  and  tempest  to  hide  there? 
Can  you  say  of  the  Lord,  "  He  is  my  refuge  and 
my  fortress:  my  God;  in  Him  will  I  trust "  ? 
If  so,  remain  in  happy  confidence.  God  is  be- 
tween you  and  all  evil  or  alarm.  Be  still ;  yea, 
be  still. 

If  you  have  not  come  to  trust  under  the  out- 
spread wings  of  the  Cherubim,  do  as  Ruth  did. 
Leave  the  land  of  your  nativity,  the  far  country 
of  Moab;  leave  your  people  and  your  gods; 
tear  yourself  away  even  from  some  twin-soul, 
dear  as  Orpah  ;  come  across  the  border-line,  and 
glean  in  the  fields  of  the  Gospel.  There  you 
will  meet  with  the  true  Boaz,  who  will  show 
kindness  unto  you,  and  you  will  become  affianced 
to  Him,  and  live  at  home  forevermore  in  the 
house  of  bread,  where  you  will  be  blessed  indeed. 


234 


The  man  will  not  be  in  rest,  until  he  have  finished 
the  thing  this  day.  Ruth  Hi.  i8. 

BOAZ  had  many  good  traits — his  religious  de- 
meanor and  speech,  his  courtesy  in  greeting  his 
servants,  his  refusal  to  take  advantage  of  Ruth's 
trust ;  but  none  are  more  satisfactory  as  an  index 
of  a  noble  character  than  this  well-known  and 
acknowledged  promptness  of  action,  when  he 
had  once  taken  in  hand  the  cause  of  the  needy. 
From  of  old,  Naomi  had  recognized  this  quality 
in  her  kinsman,  and  knew  that  he  was  a  man  of 
his  word,  who  would  assiduously  complete  what 
he  had  undertaken  to  perform. 

It  is  a  characteristic  that  we  should  do  well  to 
cultivate.  Let  us  not  arouse  hopes,  and  finally 
disappoint  them ;  let  us  not  make  promises  to 
forget  them.  Our  words  should  be  yea,  yea. 
Those  who  commit  their  cause  to  us  should  feel 
perfectly  at  rest  about  our  executing  what  we 
have  promised. 

How  true  this  is  of  Jesus  !  If  we  have  put 
our  matters  into  His  hands,  we  have  no  further 
need  of  worry  or  fear,  but  may  sit  still  in  assured 
trust.  For  Zion's  sake  He  does  not  hold  His 
peace,  and  for  Jerusalem's  sake  He  will  not  rest. 
He  has  undertaken  the  cause  of  the  Church, 
albeit  that  it  is  so  largely  composed  of  Gentiles, 
and  He  will  not  be  in  rest  until  the  marriage-feast 
is  celebrated.  He  has  made  Himself  responsible 
for  thee  and  me ;  and  He  will  not  rest  until  He 
has  played  the  part  of  a  Goel  to  the  furthest 
limit,  and  accomplished  our  redemption.  When 
we  have  fully  yielded  ourselves  to  Him,  and  have 
tasted  the  joys  of  complete  rest,  we  may  assuredly 
say  with  the  Apostle,  "I  know  whom  I  have  be- 
lieved, and  am  persuaded  that  He  is  able  to  keep 
that  which  I  have  committed  unto  Him  against 
that  day." 


335 


Ruth  have  I  purchased  to  be  my  wife. 

Ruth  iv.  lo. 

SO  this  exquisite  idyll,  which  began  with  three 
deaths  and  famine,  ends  with  marriage  rejoicings. 
Shall  not  all  God's  idylls  end  thus  ?  Shall  it  be 
left  to  the  dream  of  the  novelist  only  to  make 
happy  forever  after  ?  God  has  eternity  at  His 
disposal,  as  well  as  time.  Only  trust  Him ;  *'thy 
darkest  night  shall  end  in  brightest  day." 

It  is  impossible  not  to  read  between  these  lines 
and  see  the  foreshadowing  of  another  marriage, 
when  the  purchase  of  the  Church  shall  issue  in 
her  everlasting  union  with  the  Son,  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God  the  Father.  Let  us,  however,  apply 
these  words  to  ourselves  as  individuals. 

The  Lord  Jesus  has  purchased  us  to  be  His 
own,  not  with  corruptible  things,  as  silver  and 
gold,  but  with  His  precious  blood. 

He  has  also  won  back  our  patrimony ;  this 
earth  is  His  ;  and  shall  be  yet  rid  of  all  intruding 
evil,  to  shine  as  the  brightest  jewel  in  His  crown. 

He  has  received  the  shoe,  the  symbol  of  do- 
minion and  authority.  He  is  not  only  our  lover, 
but  our  Lord. 

He  waits  to  take  us  to  Himself,  in  a  love  that 
shall  not  cease,  and  compared  to  which  all  the 
love  we  have  ever  known  is  as  moonlight  com- 
pared with  sunshine. 


836 


A  List  of 


Rev.   F.   B.  Meyer's 
Works 


PUBLISHED    BY 


Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


New  York  :  158  Fifth  Avenue 
Chicago  :  63  Washington  Street 
Toronto  :  154  Yonge  Street 


Latest  Works. 

Paul  I  A  Servant  of  Jesus  CimsU 

i2mo,  cloth,  $1.00. 

"Of  the  many  Sacred  Biographies  I  have  written,  this  has 
been  by  far  the  most  interesting.  For  days  and  weeks  together 
I  have  lived  in  the  company  of  this  glorious  man;  but  only  to 
feel  that  he  transcended  all  one's  loftiest  conceptions.  Like 
some  great  mountain  range,  the  more  his  character  is  traversed, 
the  more  it  grows  on  the  imagination."— i^r^wz  i/ie  Preface. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  holds  in  his  hand  the  key  to  his  reader's  heart 
and  conscience.  He  speaks  to  conscience  with  a  kind  of  author- 
ity which  it  is  not  easy  to  analyze  and  yet  harder  to  resist.  In 
this  volume  he  follows  Paul's  life  through  in  a  series  of  topics, 
every  one  of  which  is  rich  in  food  for  the  Christian  life."— TA* 
Independent. 

Saved  and  Kept. 

Coun<:els  to  Young  Believers.      Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50c. 

"It  contains  twenty-three  short  addresses,  earnest,  direct  and 
spiritual,  as  everything  that  comes  from  the  pen  of  this  devote^ 
preacher.  He  writes  the  preface  on  his  fiftieth  birthday,  and 
as  he  reviews  the  past,  he  longs  to  utilize  the  lessons  and  warn- 
ings of  his  life  for  the  benefit  of  his  younger  brothers  and  sis- 
ters on  each  side  of  the  Atlantic."— r^.?  Evangelist. 

Peace,  Perfect  Peace* 

A  Portion  for  the  Sorrowing.     i8mo,  cloth,  25c. 

"Though  the  book  is  a  little  one,  it  carries  much  more  con- 
solation than  many  larger  volumes  on  the  same  subject.  Mr. 
Meyer  does  not  remand  sorrow  to  an  imaginary  realm,  but 
facing  it  in  all  its  wearisomeness,  he  shows  how  faith  in  Christ 
enables  one  to  bear  it  and  profit  by  it." — Tke  Congregationalist, 

Cheer  for  Life's  Pilgrimage. 

Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50c. 

"This  little  book  is  one  of  the  author's  cheery  helps  for  the 
pilgrim  in  his  life's  journey.  Like  sweet  songs  his  words  soothe 
and  comfort  and  strengthen  the  heart,  and  help  it  to  go  for- 
ward, whether  in  the  peaceful  home,  or  among  the  temptations 
of  the  world.  Would  that  Christians  had,  or  could  give,  more 
time  to  such  devotional  and  upbuilding  reading." — The  Chrh* 
tian  Observer, 

A  dstaway,  and  Other  Addresses. 

i2mo,  paper,  15c.;  cloth,  net  30c. 
"Contains  the  sermons  delivered  by  Mr.  Meyer  in  New  York, 
Boston,  and  in  part  in  Philadelphia,  during  his  ten  days'  visit 
to  this  country  last  winter  (Feb.  1897.)  They  treat  of  the  hin- 
drances to  spiritual  growth  and  power,  of  the  evil  of  the  natural 
heart,  so  hard  to  overcome,  of  the  only  way  of  curinj^  this  oviJ 
by  getting  Christ  into  the  heart,  of  the  work  of  Christ  and  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  of  the  possibilities  of  the  blessed  life  to 
which  the  writer  urgently  summons  his  readers."— J'-i^  Sun- 
day  School  Times, 


The  Christian  Life  Series* 

Each  i8mo,  cloth  decorated,  30  cents. 
Through  Fire  and  Floods 

*•  God's  purpose  running  through  our  lives,  often  leading 
'through  fire  and  flood,'  is  set  forth  in  these  pages.  The  au- 
thor's pungent  and  impressive  style  shapes  the  message  for 
encouragement  and  comfort."— 77?^  Presbyterian. 

The  Glorious  Lord. 

"  It  abounds  in  Biblical  knowledge  and  evangelical  earnest- 
ness."—  The  Churchman. 

YL&Y  "Words  of  the  Inner  Life. 

"Mr.  Meyer  writes  fluently  and  forcibly  of  the  deep  things 
of  God,  and  fosters  spiritual  hunger  while  he  feeds  iV—The 
N.   V.  Observer. 

Calvary  to  Pentecost* 

"All  Mr.  Meyer's  books  are  welcome,  but  none  more  than 
this.  It  is  rich  food  for  the  aspiring  Christian." — The  Standard. 

The  Future  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"  Full  of  tender  comfort  and  helpful  suggestions."— 77^^ /»- 
terior. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"  He  always  has  something  to  say  that  is  suggestive,  con. 
stantly  casts  light  upon  the  Scripture." — The  S.  S.  Times. 

Christian  Living. 

"  Full  of  rich,  ripe  thought  and  strength  and  encouragement 
for  the  Christian  \\.&diXV —Christian  Work. 

The  Shepherd  Psalm. 

•  These  meditations  on  the  twenty-third  Psalm  are  earliest, 
devout,  practical."— 7>4^  Evangelist. 


The  *' Blessed  Life''  Editions. 

The  following  have  been  issued  in  the  new  ''  Blessed  Life 
Series,"  i8mo,  cloth,  ink  stampings,  each  30  cents. 

The  Shepherd  Psahru 

Christian  Living. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

The  Future  ".".nses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 


Old  Testament  Heroes. 

i2mo,  cloth,  eight  volumes,  each  $i.oo. 

*•  Mr.  Meyer  is  unsurpassed  in  recent  times  in  his  faculty  ot 
helpfully  and  interestingly  adapting  studies  of  Old  Testament 
characters  to  modern  needs.  His  work  does  not  consist  of 
mere  pious  moralizing,  but  it  is  the  product  of  a  man  evidently 
of  scholarly  habits  and  attainments,  and  in  close  and  practical 
touch  with  the  life  of  the  people  of  the  day,  and  with  the 
strongest  and  clearest  convictions  that  the  simple,  plain  gospel 
of  Christ,  the  divine  and  atoning  Saviour,  and  the  Bible  the 
very  word  of  God,  are  indispensable  to  the  salvation  of  the 
world, ' ' —  The  United  Presbyterian. 

David :  Shepherd,  Psalmistt  King;* 

"As  in  all  his  works,  he  has  developed  the  spiritual  and 
practical  lines,  so  that  his  book  is  not  merely  a  record  of 
events,  but  the  story  of  a  great  life,  the  reading  of  which  will 
be  stimulating  and  profitable." — The  Sunday  School  Times. 

Jeremiali:  Priest  and  Prophet. 

*'  It  is  at  once  a  biography,  an  interpretation,  and  a  terse  and 
practical  application  of  divine  truth  to  human  life.  It  is 
scholarly  but  not  pitched  on  too  high  a  key  of  learning  for  the 
common  reader."— 7%^  Congregationalist. 

Joshtta,  and  the  Land  of  Promise. 

•'  The  twenty  chapters  here  given  on  the  Book  of  Joshua  are 
so  many  lines  of  light  on  the  whole  period  and  its  main  charac- 
ters. The  great  leader  stands  out  in  relief,  and  his  relations  to 
the  age  are  traced  with  care  and  intelligence."— Z/ow'j  Herald. 

Moses,  the  Servant  of  God. 

"The  author's  analysis  of  the  character  and  history  of 
Moses  is,  in  some  respects,  the  best  which  we  remember  to 
have  seen.     The  book  is  at  once  learned,  and  popular."— 714* 

Congregationalist. 

Abraham?  or,  The  Obedience  of  Faith. 

"  He  is  throughout  reverent  and  thoughtful,  and  will  point  I 
out  to  many  a  reader  unsuspected  truth  and  beauty  in  the  Holy  1 
Scriptures."— r^.?  Watchman.  / 

Elijah,  and  the  Secret  of  His  Power. 

••  Good,  exceedingly  good.  Mr.  Meyer  is  a  great  gain  to  the 
armies  of  evangelical  truth,  for  his  tone,  spirit  and  aspirations 
are  all  of  a  fine  gospel  sort."— C.  H.  Spurgeon  in  Sword  and 
Trowel. 

Israel,  a  Prince  with  God. 

"  No  Christian  is  likely  to  read  the  volume  ....  with- 
out being  wiser,  purer,  happier  and  more  devoted  to  his  Mas- 
ter. It  surpasses  any  book  we  have  seen  on  Jacob  and  his 
eventful  career." — The  Baptist  Magazine. 

Joseph:  Beloved— Hated— Exalted. 

"  We  trust  this  welcome  volume  will  find  readers  in  all  ranks 
and  classes,  among  old  as  well  as  you^ff,  and  will  perform  a 
blessed  ministry  of  help  and  guidance  In  the  life  which  is  life 
indeed."— r^^  Christian. 


The  Expository  Series. 

Four  volumes,   i2mo,  cloth,   each  $i.oaii 

Christ  in  Isaiaii* 

Expositions  of  Isaiah  XL.-LV. 

"The  redemption  of  Israel  out  of  Babylon  is  here  made  the 
subject  of  a  series  of  lucid  and  inspiriting  expository  essays, 
covering  the  section  of  Isaiah's  prophecy  devoted  to  that 
theme  (Chapters  4055).  The  quality  of  the  author's  work  as  an 
interpreter  of  Scripture  is  already  well  known  and  highly  ap- 
preciated in  this  country.  Nothing  thus  far  issued  by  him  can, 
in  our  judgment,  deserve  wider  or  longer  favor  than  this  apt, 
keen-eyed,  eloquent  expansion  of  the  prophet's  inspired 
words.  — The  Watchman. 

The  "Way  Into  the  Holiest* 

Expositions  of  the  Epistle  to   the  Hebrews. 

"The  aim  of  the  author  in  this  work  is  to  deduce  the  great 
spiritual  lessons  which  are  enshrined  in  the  sublime  words  of 
the  epistle.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  Mr.  Meyer  has  admir- 
ably succeeded  in  accomplishing  his  purpose.  The  expositions 
as  a  whole  strikingly  show  that  Christ's  death  was  substitu- 
tionary, and  they  also  exhibit  the  true  relation  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament symbols  of  sacrfice  and  priesthood  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  The  greatness  and  glory  of  the  Son  of  God  are  force- 
fully illustrated,  and  the  characteristics  of  the  ideal  Christian 
life  are  finely  described,  as  well  as  the  nature  of  the  discipline 
by  which  the  divine  character  is  perfected  in  man.  The  ex- 
positions are  admirable  specimens  of  lucid  spiritual  teaching 
couched  in  simple,  but  eloquent  language.  Loyal  disciples  of 
Christ  will  prize  this  tribute  to  the  honor  of  their  Lord.  It  is  a 
volume  of  rare  worth." — The  N.  Y.  Observer. 

The  Life  and  Light  of  Men. 

Expositions  of  John  I. -XII. 

"These  expositions  have  the  character  of  all  Mr.  Meyer's 
writings.  They  combine  devout  insight  into  the  rich  resources 
of  the  Word  of  God,  with  skill  in  adapting  it  to  the  spiritual 
needs  of  his  readers.  He  is  earnest,  practical,  personal,  and 
he  does  not  allow  his  good  intentions  to  supply  the  place  of  re- 
search and  study,  or  to  supersede  the  necessity  of  thinking  for 
himself.  And  he  rises  above  the  common  mistake  of  devo- 
tional writers,  who  assume  that  the  same  rules  will  suffice;  and 
the  same  experience  is  required  of  every  believer." — The  Sun- 
day School  Times, 

Tried  by  Fire. 

Expositions  in  the  First  Epistle  of  Peter. 

"The  popularity  of  Mr.  Meyer's  Expositions  is  a  good  sign 
of  the  times.  This  latest  is  one  of  the  best,  and  is  full  of 
:ender  Christian  wisdom.  The  chief  charm  of  the  bool^  »s  its 
earnest  simplicity." — The  British  Weekly. 

"As  is  well  known,  Mr.  Meyer's  style  is  vivid  in  description 
^nd  mostly  deeply  spiritual  in  insight  and  application." — The 
Christian  Advocate  {N,  K) 


Tfic  Bells  of  Is. 

^''hoes  from  my  Early  Pastorates.    With  Portrait 
i2mo,  cloth,  75c. 

"Tnis  book  is  brief— sixteen  short  chapters,  each  one  a  little 
psalm  of  life.  Mr.  Meyer  has  left  the  impress  of  his  strong 
personality  on  the  book.  It  is  full  of  his  quiet  reveries,  his 
outreaching  toward  God  and  toward  souls,  with  practical  sug- 
gestions as  to  city  missions,  and  relief  of  poverty  and  distress/* 
—A.  T.  PiERSON,  D.D. 

Prayers  for  Heart  and  Home.  ^ 

Morning  and  Evening  Devotions  for  a  Month. 
8vo,  flexible  cloth,  round  corners,  75c. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  has  a  gift  of  utterance  in  things  spiritual  such 
as  few  men  of  the  present  day  possess,  and  no  Christian  writer 
of  the  day  is  better  fitted  by  character,  training  and  experience 
to  prepare  a  manual  of  worship  than  he.  The  volume  will  be 
found  helpful  and  stimulating  in  the  highest  and  truest  sense." 
'  •'Christian  Work. 

The  Psalms* 

Notes  and  Readings.     i8mo,  cloth,  6oc. 

"An  admirable  little  volume,  which  should  prove  helpful  to 
any  preacher,  while  as  the  companion  of  the  private  student, 
it  should  be  invaluable." — The  Quiver. 

Light  on  Life's  Duties,  and  The  Secret  of  Guidance* 

Two  volumes  of  addresses.     Each  i2mo^  paper,  15c.; 
cloth,  net,  30c. 

Choice  Extracts  from  **  The  First  Steps.^ 
And  Other  Writings  of  Rev.  F.  B.  Meyer,  selected  by 
Rev.  B.  Fay  Mills.  24mo,  paper,  each,  ^c. ;  per  dozen, 
net,  35c.     i6mo,  large  paper  edition,  15c. 

A  Holy  Temple* 

An  Address  to  Young  Men.     i8mo,  paper,  per  dozen, 

net,  20C. 

Envelope  Series  of  Booklets. 

Per  dozen,  net,  20c.;  per  hundred,  net,  $1.50, 

A  Keswick  Experience.  The  Secret  of  Christ's  Indwell- 
The  Trivial  Round,  The  Com-       ing. 

mon  Task.  Where  Am  I  Wrong  ? 

Peace,  Perfect  Peace,  Young  Men,  Don't  Drift. 

The  Secret  of  Power.  The  Lost  Chord  Found. 

With  Christ  in  Separation.  How  to  Read  Your  Bible. 

Seven  Rules  for  Daily  Living.  The  Secret  of  Guidance. 

The  Secret  of  Victory  over  Sin.  The  Blessed  Dead. 

The  First  Step  into  the  Bless-  Burdens,  and  What  to  do  Wifti 

ed  Life.  Them. 

Words  of  Help  for  Christian  In  the  Secret  of  His  Presence 

Girls.  Why  Sign  the  Pledge. 

The  Filling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  Chambers  of  the  King. 

Not  Eradication.  The  Stewardship  of  Money. 

How  to  Bear  Sorrow,  Comfort  to  be  Comforted. 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Libraries 


1    1012  01276  7754 


mm 


,1  •••r'li!i'' 
•it'i!;!';!;; 


'I 


^^ji 


..■■if-t 


