%}\M 


I'ij 


'i 


•'.'  • ;;'  '''fi.||H  I    '  lit 


,1(1' 


I-"  iiiiiit  M 


■'H 


•'i;i:,!! 


'  ;  ■•'Mil 

•'''''!li!1i!;,::';'it^ 


ill. 


,  I'-iiiii  •  ' 


iiii'"1iH!;'i!ii, 


,:i 


111  ji:' 


llllii, 


M'l        !  I, 

"'iillili-';,,     .,'' 

'i'J.ll.l'.l-.'    . 


I'''li 
'i;;!l 


Vri;  111 


!!;liiil,.;i 


iiiiiiiiiilliiiiiliifi^i^ 


rUBRARY  OF  PRINCETON 


JUN     5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


^RS~T91    .M49    1898  v.  5 
Seytr,    F.    B.    1847-1929 
Our  daily  homily 


[y^^^^ptyL^        ^^ 


THE  COMPLETE  JVORKS 

OF 

REV, 

F.   B.   MEYER,   B.A, 

For 

complete    descriptive    list 

of  (Mr 

.    {Meyer's    writings,    see 

the  concluding  pages  of  this  vol-     | 

ume. 

^11    of  the  hooks    there 

named 

will  be  sent,  post  free^  on 

receipt 

of  price. 

Our  Daily  Homily 


Volume  V:  Matthew-Revelation 


By  the  Rev. 

F.  B.  MEYER,  B.A. 

AUTHOR  OF 

'The  Shepherd  Psalm,"  "Old  Testament  Heroes,' 
"Christian  Living,"  etc.,  etc. 


LIBRARY  OF  PRINCETON 


New  York      Chicago      Toronto 

Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 

Publishers  of  Evangelical  Literature 


Copyright,  1899 

BY 

Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


PREFACE 


WITH  the  issue  of  this  fifth  volume  of  *'  Our 
Daily  Homily,"  the  top  stone  is  placed  on  a 
structure  which  has  occupied  many  of  my  bright- 
est hours  for  more  than  three  years. 

Amid  the  pressure  of  a  busy  life,  and  the  in- 
evitable demands  of  a  considerable  church-organ- 
ization, it  has  been  an  untold  refreshment  to  turn 
to  the  devout  study  of  successive  chapters  of  the 
Bible,  with  the  view  of  obtaining  a  message  for 
oneself,  and  to  pass  on  to  others. 

We  must  all  have  our  "Temple  of  Peace"  ; 
and  if  this  may  not  be  a  spacious  and  well-stocked 
library,  it  may  at  least  be  that  collection  of  sacred 
literature  which  contains  the  noblest  thoughts  of 
the  holiest  men,  inbreathed  and  borne  along  by 
the  Spirit  of  God.  Here  is  the  secret  of  serenity, 
the  treasure  of  tranquillity,  the  clue  to  perennial 
comfort. 

It  has  been  impossible  altogether  to  exclude  the 
personal  element  from  these  pages,  because  the 
sheets  have  been  printed  from  the  types  of  my 
own  daily  experience,  set  up  by  the  many  altering 
circumstances  of  joy  and  grief,  conflict  and  peace, 
which  befall  each  of  us.  But  the  one  refrain  has 
been  the  reality  of  the  unseen ;  the  nearness  of 
God  ;  the  vindication  of  the  Christian,  as  the  only 
true  policy  of  life ;  the  duty  and  blessedness  of 
doing  all  God  commands,  and  bearing  all  He 


^i  PREFACE. 


permits;  the  uplifting  and  light-bringing  power 
of  simple  trust  in  Him  who  liveth,  and  was  dead, 
and  who  is  alive  forevermore. 

None  of  my  books  is  dearer  to  me  than  this,  or 
seems  to  contain  more  of  my  innermost  thought ; 
but  at  best  it  is  only  a  handful  of  meal  in  the 
barrel,  which  may  God  multiply  till  He  send  rain 
on  the  earth. 

F.  B.  Meyer. 


OUR  DAILY  HOMILY 


//  is  He  that  shall  save  His  people  from  their  sins. 

Matt.  i.  21  (R.  v.). 

THIS  is  the  mission  of  Immanuel.  He  came, 
not  as  the  Jews  expected,  to  break  the  yoke  of 
Caesar  and  reestabUsh  the  kingdom  of  David ; 
but  to  break  the  yoke  of  sin,  and  set  up  the  sin- 
less kingdom  of  God.  The  Church  has  too  often 
misunderstood  the  object  of  His  advent,  as 
though  He  meant  simply  to  save  from  the  con- 
sequences and  results  of  sin.  This  were  too 
limited  a  programme  for  the  Son  of  God.  To 
cancel  the  results  and  leave  the  bitter  cause ;  to 
deliver  from  the  penalty,  but  not  from  the  power ; 
to  rescue  His  people  from  the  grasp  of  a  broken 
law,  but  confess  Himself  unable  to  deal  with  the 
bad  virus  of  the  blood — this  were  to  fail.  No ; 
dare  to  take  this  announcement  in  its  full  and 
glorious  meaning,  written  as  it  is  on  the  portico  of 
our  Saviour's  life. 

What  an  admixture  of  blood  flowed  through 
His  veins  !  Let  your  eye  glance  through  the  list 
of  His  genealogy.  Men  and  women,  notorious 
for  their  evil  character,  lie  in  the  direct  line  of 
His  descent.  This  was  permitted,  that  He  might 
fully  represent  our  fallen  race;  that  no  sinner, 
however  bad,  should  be  abashed  to  claim  His 
help;  and  that  it  should  be  clearly  shown  how 
powerless  sin  was  to  tarnish  or  taint  the  holiness 
of  His  sinless  nature.  Made  in  the  likeness  of 
sinful  flesh.  He  knew  no  sin.  The  germs  of  cor- 
ruption could  find  no  welcome  in  His  heart. 

Art  thou  one  of  His  people  ?  Hast  thou  ac- 
cepted His  rule,  and  allied  thyself  with  Him? 
For  if  so,  He  shall  save  thee.  Though  possessed 
with  seven  devils,  He  will  drive  them  out. 


They  offered  unto  Him  gifts,  Gold.  .  .  . 
Matt.  ii.  II  {inarg.'). 

GOLD  is  for  the  king.  It  is  meet  that  Mat- 
thew should  tell  this  story :  for  his  is  preemi- 
nently the  royal  Gospel.  Long  before  the  Lord 
was  born,  these  Eastern  sages  must  have  been 
started  on  their  way,  whither  and  to  worship  whom 
they  knew  not :  but  an  ancient  prophecy  had 
foretold  that  to  this  babe  should  be  offered  of  the 
gold  of  Sheba,  and  that  kings  should  bring  Him 
the  riches  of  the  Gentiles. 

How  useful  this  gold  was  to  Joseph  in  the  fol- 
lowing months  !  It  helped  him  to  defray  the 
cost  of  the  journey  into  Egypt  and  back,  and  to 
maintain  his  precious  charges  there.  The 
Heavenly  Father  knew  what  those  needs  would 
be,  and  met  them  by  anticipation.  If  you  con- 
cern yourself  in  the  affairs  of  His  kingdom,  and 
will  obey  the  warnings  and  directions  He  gives  ; 
if  you  dare  to  step  out  on  the  path  of  literal 
obedience — you  will  find  that  God  will  become 
responsible  and  defray  all  costs.  Gold  is  naught 
to  Him.  He  can  make  it  out  of  common  dust  by 
a  word. 

It  is  sweet  to  think  of  all  the  gold  presented  to 
Jesus  in  after  ages.  The  wealth  of  the  rich,  the 
golden  ornaments  taken  from  the  person,  the  tiny 
pieces  of  gold  which  represent  the  patient  savings 
of  the  poor — all  these  have  made  up  the  flowing 
river  of  which  those  golden  gifts  of  the  Magi  were 
the  first  trickling  drops.  Have  you  given  gold  to 
Him,  you  who  know  Him,  not  as  the  babe  only, 
but  as  the  Man  of  the  Cross ;  not  as  man  merely, 
but  as  the  Son  of  the  Highest  ?  You  may  have 
given  Him  copper  in  abundance,  and  silver  in 
handfuls  ;  but  let  your  future  gifts  to  Him  be  of 
the  best.  Or,  if  poverty  restrains  you,  let  the 
philosopher's  stone  of  Love  turn  the  meaner 
metals  to  gold. 

2 


In  those  days  cometh  John  the  Baptist. 

Matt.  in.  i. 

THE  Evangelist  is  fond  of  the  present  tense, 
** cometh."  Yes,  these  records  are  true  to  all 
time.  You  tell  me  that  they  happened  nineteen 
centuries  ago.  Certainly;  but  they  happened 
yesterday,  and  are  happening  to-day.  Remember 
that  He  is  the  same  yesterday,  to-day,  and  for- 
ever. He  was,  and  is,  and  is  to  come.  Christ 
was  born  into  the  world,  but  He  is  always  being 
born  into  the  hearts  of  men  in  Regeneration. 
John  preceded  and  announced  His  advent  in  the 
wilderness  of  Judaea ;  and  He  is  always  prepar- 
ing His  way  into  the  hearts  and  lives  of  men. 
It  is  doubtful  whether  Jesus  ever  comes  into  the 
heart  of  mature  manhood  without  the  previous 
work  of  a  John  the  Baptist.  Of  days  of  con- 
viction of  sin,  of  remorse,  of  repentance,  we  may 
truly  say,  ''In  those  days  cometh  John  the 
Baptist." 

John  the  Baptist  is  sadly  needed  to-day.  Much 
of  what  we  call  Christianity  is  but  christianized 
heathenism.  It  glozes  over  covetousness,  luxuri- 
ous self-indulgence,  compliance  with  fashion  and 
worldliness;  it  admits  into  its  high  places  men 
who  thrive  on  the  oppression  of  the  poor;  it 
condones  the  oppression  of  the  native  races,  the 
sale  of  opium  and  spirits,  the  shameless  traffic  in 
impurity ;  it  rears  the  ideals  of  the  world  in  the 
place  of  the  changeless  cross  of  the  slain  Christ 
with  its  divine  sorrow  and  blood.  Ah,  we  need 
that  John  the  Baptist  should  come  with  his  stern 
words  about  the  axe,  the  winnowing-fan,  and  the 
fire.  Nothing  less  will  avail  to  prepare  the  way 
for  a  new  coming  of  Christ. 

Each  age  has  had  its  John  the  Baptist.  Now 
St.  Bernard  ;  now  Savonarola ;  now  John  Knox. 
With  sonorous,  ringing  voice  the  herald  has  pre- 
pared the  way  of  the  King :  ''He  cometh  to 
judge  the  world  !  " 

3 


Jesus  was  led  up  of  the  Spirit  into  the  wilderness 
to  be  tempted  of  the  devil.  Matt.  iv.  i. 

YESTERDAY,  the  open  heavens  ;  to-day,  the 
burning  cinders  of  the  wilderness  of  temptation. 
Then  the  voice  of  the  Father  owning  Him  as  the 
Well-beloved ;  now  the  hiss  of  the  tempter. 
Then  the  teeming  crowds ;  now  the  desert  solitude 
and  silence,  broken  only  by  the  cry  of  the  wild 
beast.  Then  the  Spirit  as  a  nesting  dove,  but  now 
as  a  compelling  force.  Wherever  there  is  the 
Christ-life,  it  passes  through  these  same  experi- 
ences. The  Holy  Spirit  often  anticipates  coming 
trial  by  granting  some  great  revelation  of  God ; 
but  He  who  gives  the  one  leads  into  the  other, 
that  the  precious  bestowments  of  God's  grace  may 
be  rendered  permanent. 

Would  you  give  the  bread  of  life  to  thousands  ? 
You  must  refuse  to  use  your  opportunity  to  make 
bread  for  your  own  gratification.  You  cannot  use 
your  power  for  others  and  for  yourself.  If  you 
elect  to  use  it  for  them,  you  must  be  content  to 
wait  till  the  Father  sends  His  angels  to  minister  to 
you.  In  the  meanwhile  live  by  faith  on  His 
words. 

Would  you  teach  the  magnificence  of  a  faith 
that  can  trust  God  to  preserve  it,  though  it  steps 
from  the  mountain  brow  on  to  thin  air  ?  You 
must  refuse  to  use  it  for  purposes  of  ostentation ; 
and  wait  till  God,  not  Satan,  calls. 

Would  you  win  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  ? 
You  must  obtain  them,  not  by  methods  which 
commend  themselves  to  human  prudence,  but 
through  the  death  of  the  cross  and  the  falling  into 
the  ground  to  die.  There  are  two  mountains  in 
the  Gospel :  this,  as  it  opens ;  that  of  the  Ascen- 
sion at  its  close.  The  valley  of  death  lies  be- 
tween. But  the  traversing  of  this  valley  was 
necessary,  ere  Christ  could  say,  ''All  power  is 
given  unto  Me  in  heaven  and  in  earth." 
4 


That  ye  7nay  be  sons  of  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven.  Matt.  v.  4^  (r.  v.). 

WE  are  made  sons  by  regeneration,  through 
faith  in  the  Son ;  but  we  are  called  to  make  our 
calling  and  election  sure — to  approve  and  vindi- 
cate our  right  to  that  sacred  name.  We  can  only 
do  this  by  showing  in  word  and  act  that  the 
Divine  life  and  principles  animate  us. 

Jesus  teaches  that  the  life  of  God  in  the 
hearts  of  His  children  will  show  itself  in  pure 
and  unaffected  love.  He  says  in  effect,  ''  God 
is  good  :  God  forgives :  God  bears  with  wrong 
and  sin  :  God  loves  those  who  hate  Him,  blesses 
those  who  curse,  bestows  His  favors  on  the  false 
and  unjust,  suffers  long  and  is  kind ;  believes, 
hopes,  bears  all  things.  Therefore,  if  you  are 
His  children,  do  as  He  does,  as  I  do:  follow 
Me :  live  as  I  hve  :  become  as  a  bird,  a  lily, 
a  little  child :  be  pure,  merciful,  lowly,  gentle, 
strong  in  righteousness — and  you  will  be  called 
the  sons  of  God ;  yours  will  be  the  kingdom  of 
heaven." 

There  were  several  things  the  Lord  could  not 
say  fully  in  this  opening  statement.  That  obedi- 
ence to  His  precepts  would  inevitably  conduct 
them  to  a  cross ;  that  the  strength  for  such  a  life 
could  only  be  secured  through  the  coming  of  the 
Comforter;  that  the  progress  of  the  Kingdom 
would  be  slow  and  arduous — these  things  were 
for  the  time  veiled  and  hidden.  But  His  main 
object  was  to  teach  that  Christianity  must  be  a 
life  after  the  model  of  God's.  Christian  disciple, 
art  thou  living  this  life  ?  Not  by  a  creed,  a  rit- 
ual, a  profession ;  but  by  living  the  life,  is  thy 
true  nature  discerned,  whether  thou  art  wheat  or 
tare,  child  or  hypocrite.  Sometimes  we  are  called 
to  be  as  the  sun,  ripening  souls  by  our  genial 
love ;  at  other  times  we  refresh  them  as  rain  wa- 
tering the  grass. 

5 


Thy  Father  which  is  in  secret^  .  .  .  which  seeth 
in  secret.  Matt.  vi.  i8. 

HOW  fondly  Jesus  repeats  these  words  (vers. 
4,  6,  1 8).  Though  compelled  to  live  so  much  in 
the  public  gaze  of  men,  His  heart  was  always 
sighing  for  the  secret  place  of  fellowship  with  His 
Father,  who  waited  for  Him  there. 

Of  course,  the  main  object  of  these  paragraphs 
was  to  withdraw  His  disciples  from  the  excessive 
outwardness  of  the  age  in  which  He  spoke,  and 
which  necessarily  detracted  from  the  singleness, 
directness,  and  simplicity  of  the  religious  life. 
It  is  impossible  to  perform  our  religious  duties 
before  men,  without  insensibly  considering  what 
impression  we  are  producing,  and  how  far  their 
estimation  of  us  is  being  enhanced.  And  in  so 
far  as  we  seek  these  things,  the  stream  is  con- 
taminated with  mud  and  silt,  and  becomes  tur- 
bid. We  have  just  as  much  religious  life  as  we 
show  to  God  in  secret — ^just  that,  no  less,  no  more. 
Whatever  is  not  wrought  between  thee  and  God, 
with  no  record  but  His  eye,  is  chaff  which  the 
wind  driveth  away. 

Here  is  a  test  for  our  alms,  our  prayers, 
and  our  fasting  from  sin  and  self-indulgence.  If 
we  do  any  of  these  to  maintain  or  increase 
the  consideration  that  men  have  of  us,  they 
count  for  nothing  in  the  eye  of  God.  But  what- 
ever is  done  for  Him  alone  will  secure  His  in- 
evitable notice  and  reward.  Dwell  on  that  very 
definite  assurance:  ^^ Shall  recompense  thee." 
There  is  no  doubt  about  it.  For  every  petition 
breathed  into  His  ear ;  for  every  sigh  and  tear ; 
for  every  abstinence  from  sin  and  self — there 
will  be  a  certain  recompense,  after  the  Divine 
measure.  Such  seeds  shall  have  a  prolific  har- 
vest. Seek  then  the  secret  place,  where  prying 
eyes  cannot  follow,  and  curious  ears  cannot  over- 
hear. 

6 


With  what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured 
to  you.  Matt,  vii,  2. 

THIS  is  an  invariable  principle.  Christ  did 
not  make  it  true  by  saying  it ;  He  said  it  because 
it  was  true.  There  are  at  least  three  policies  of 
life — that  of  the  churl,  who  never  gives  unless  he 
is  compelled ;  of  the  niggard,  who  metes  out  from 
the  tiniest  measure  on  which  he  can  lay  hands ; 
of  the  bountiful  man,  who  is  ever  meting  out  his 
stores  with  lavish  hand.  If  he  gives,  it  is  to  his 
uttermost;  if  he  loves,  it  is  with  all  his  heart; 
if  he  forgives,  he  crowns  the  forgiven  one  with 
loving  kindness ;  if  he  puts  his  hand  to  con- 
structing aught,  every  part  of  it  bears  trace 
of  the  wealth  of  his  taste,  and  gift,  and  self-sac- 
rifice. 

It  might  be  supposed  that  such  a  policy  would 
lead  to  bankruptcy  of  resources  and  speedy  im- 
poverishment ;  and  for  fear  of  this  most  refrain 
from  adopting  it.  They  either  do  not  give,  or 
give  stintingly  and  fearfully.  But  the  remarkable 
fact  is,  that  when  a  man  is  using  this  large  meas- 
ure toward  others,  they  catch  it  up  and  fill  it  with 
their  bountifulness  toward  him.  They  mete  out 
their  love  and  gifts  according  to  the  measure  of 
his  giving.  This  is  an  invariable  principle  :  begin 
serving  men  with  a  miser's  hand,  and  they  will 
do  the  same  to  you ;  begin,  on  the  contrary,  by 
serving  men  without  stint,  and  they  will  do  the 
same  to  you. 

Live  a  royal  life,  child  of  God,  as  becomes  such 
a  Father.  Give,  expecting  nothing  again,  with 
full  measure,  pressed  down,  and  running  over. 
Give,  not  so  much  money,  as  love,  and  tender- 
ness, and  human  sympathy :  give  as  one  who  is 
always  receiving  from  the  boundless  resources  of 
God.  And,  provided  always  that  thy  motives  are 
pure,  it  will  come  back  to  thee.  God  will  see 
thee  bountifully  rewarded. 
7 


A  man  under  authority y  having  soldiers  under  me. 

Matt.  via.  g. 

THE  centurion's  faith  set  Christ  marveUing. 
First,  because  it  was  found  in  such  an  unlikely 
place.  Here  was  a  Gentile  who  had  come  from 
the  West,  and  was  sitting  do\\Ti  with  Abraham  in 
the  Kingdom  of  God.  Secondly,  because  of  its 
greatness :  <*  I  have  not  found  so  great  faith,  no, 
not  in  Israel." 

This  Roman  officer  applied  to  our  Lord  prin- 
ciples with  which  he  was  cognizant  through  his 
connection  with  the  army.  He  knew  that  he  had 
no  power  over  other  men  in  his  individual  ca- 
pacity, or  apart  from  his  organic  connection  with 
the  machinery  of  government.  If  he  said  to  one 
man  Come;  to  another  Go;  to  his  servant  Do 
this,  and  his  command  was  immediately  obeyed — 
it  was  entirely  due  to  his  own  obedience,  in  turn, 
to  the  authority  which  was  over  himself.  So  long 
as  he  obeyed  that  authority,  he  represented  it; 
and  it  passed  through  him  to  compel  obedience  to 
his  commands.  This  is  the  principle  he  applied 
to  our  Lord. 

He  recognized  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was 
always  acting  under  the  authority  of  His  Heavenly 
Father,  and  he  inferred,  therefore,  that  He  could 
wield  the  power  of  God  as  he  could  that  of  Rome. 
As  the  authority  of  the  Caesars  flowed  through  his 
own  yielded  life,  so  the  authority  of  God  over 
diseases,  demons,  and  all  else,  would  flow  through 
Christ's. 

What  a  profound  principle  is  here  !  Learn  to 
obey,  and  you  shall  rule.  Yield  yourself  abso- 
lutely to  God,  and  God's  power  shall  pass  through 
your  heart  and  life.  Be  under  Divine  authority, 
and  you  shall  be  able  to  say.  Go,  come,  do  this. 
All  things  serv'e  the  man  who  serves  Jesus  Christ. 
Absolute  consecration  to  God,  as  a  soldier  is 
surrendered  to  his  country,  is  the  condition  of 
power. 

8 


Thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole. 

Matt.  ix.  22. 

WHOLENESS  and  holiness  are  identical :  the 
one  of  the  body  \  the  other  of  the  soul.  They  are 
closely  related  to  the  word  Health,  and  all  may 
be  procured  through  faith.  Holiness,  whole- 
ness of  heart,  health — and  all  by  faith.  There 
are  three  steps  to  this  blessed  state— of  wholeness 
of  soul. 

First,  we  must  believe  that  it  is  attainable.  For 
we  never  feel  morally  bound  to  do,  attempt,  or 
choose,  what  we  do  not  believe  to  be  within  our 
reach.  But  all  questions  on  the  matter  are  settled 
forevermore  by  such  words  as,  "Be  ye  holy,  for 
I  am  holy  "  ;  and  **  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and 
with  all  thy  mind. ' ' 

Seco7id,  we  ?nust  consecrate  ourselves  to  God. 
In  other  words,  by  the  help  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
we  must  determine  and  resolve  that  we  will  be 
wholly  the  Lord's.  We  must  come  to  a  fixed 
resolve  to  break  off  from  every  known  sin ;  to 
walk,  so  far  as  we  know  them,  in  the  way  of  God's 
commandments ;  to  be  and  do  and  suffer  all  His 
righteous  will.  This  must  be  our  deliberate  re- 
solve for  all  coming  time ;  and  if  we  are  unable  to 
make  the  resolve,  through  the  frailty  of  our  nature 
and  the  strength  of  our  old  sins,  we  must  at  least 
tell  God  that  we  are  willing  for  this  to  become  our 
unvacillating  attitude. 

Third,  we  must  believe,  absolutely,  that  God 
does  accept  the  consecration  we  have  made,  and 
will  do  all  that  He  has  promised,  by  infilhng  us 
with  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  working  in  us  that 
which  is  pleasing  in  His  sight.  Nay,  we  must 
not  only  believe  that  He  will  do  it,  we  must  ask 
and  claim  that  He  should  do  it;  we  must,  like 
this  woman,  touch  Christ  and  obtain  His  healing 
virtue. 


What  I  tell  you  in  the  darkness  y  speak  ye  in  the 
light.  Matt.  X.  27. 

THESE  striking  words  are  applicable  to  us  all. 
Our  Lord  is  constantly  taking  us  into  the  dark, 
that  He  may  tell  us  things.  Into  the  dark  of  the 
shadowed  home,  where  bereavement  has  drawn 
down  the  blinds;  into  the  dark  of  the  lonely, 
desolate  life,  where  some  infirmity  closes  us  in 
from  the  light  and  stir  of  life ;  into  the  dark  of 
some  crushing  sorrow  and  disappointment.  Then 
He  tells  us  His  secrets,  great  and  wonderful,  eter- 
nal and  infinite.  The  eye,  which  has  become 
dazzled  by  the  glare  of  earth,  becomes  able  to  be- 
hold the  heavenly  constellations ;  and  the  ear  to 
detect  the  undertones  of  His  voice,  which  is  often 
drowned  amid  the  tumult  of  earth's  strident 
cries. 

But  such  revelations  always  imply  a  correspond- 
ing responsibility — that  speak  ye  in  the  light — that 
proclaim  upon  the  house-tops.  We  are  not  meant 
to  linger  always  in  the  dark,  or  stay  in  the  closet ; 
presently  we  shall  be  summoned  to  take  our  place 
in  the  rush  and  storm  of  life ;  and  when  that  mo- 
ment comes,  we  are  to  speak  and  proclaim  what 
we  have  learned. 

This  gives  a  new  meaning  to  suffering,  the  sad- 
dest element  in  which  is  often  its  apparent  aim- 
lessness.  "How  useless  I  am."  ''What  am  I 
doing  for  the  betterment  of  men  ?  "  '*  Wherefore 
this  waste  of  the  precious  spikenard  of  my  soul." 
Such  are  the  desperate  laments  of  the  sufferer. 
But  God  has  a  purpose  in  it  all.  He  has  with- 
drawn His  child  to  the  higher  altitudes  of  fellow- 
ship, that  he  may  hear  God  speaking  face  to  face, 
and  bear  the  message  to  his  fellows  at  the  moun- 
tain foot.  Were  the  forty  days  wasted  that 
Moses  spent  on  the  Mount,  or  the  period  spent 
at  Horeb  by  Elijah,  or  the  years  spent  in  Arabia 
by  Paul? 

10 


Blessed  is  he,  whosoever  shall  not  be  offended  in 
Me.  Matt.  xi.  6. 

A  FRIEND  has  turned  these  words  into  an- 
other beatitude — The  blessedness  of  the  unof- 
f ended.  The  Baptist  was  tempted  to  take  of- 
fence with  Christ,  first,  because  of  His  long 
delay  in  asserting  Himself  as  the  promised  Mes- 
siah j  and  secondly,  because  of  His  apparent  in- 
difference to  His  own  welfare.  ''If  He  be  all 
that  I  expected,  why  does  He  leave  me  in  this 
sad  plight,  extending  to  me  no  word  of  comfort ; 
making  no  attempt  to  free  me  from  these  dark, 
damp  cells." 

Are  there  not  such  hours  in  our  lives  still  ?  We 
say.  If  He  really  love  us  and  is  entrusted  with  all 
power,  why  does  He  not  deliver  us  from  this  dif- 
ficult and  irksome  condition  ?  Why  does  He  not 
hurl  these  prison  walls  to  the  ground  ?  Why  does 
He  not  vindicate  and  bring  me  out  to  the  light  of 
life  and  joy  ? 

But  the  Lord  made  no  attempt  to  emancipate 
His  servant ;  and  He  seems  to  be  unmindful  of 
our  sore  straits.  All  He  did  for  John  was  to  send 
him  materials  on  which  his  faith  should  feed,  and 
rise  to  a  stronger,  nobler  growth.  *' Go  back," 
He  said  in  effect  to  John,  ''tell  him  what  I  can 
do ;  he  is  not  mistaken — I  have  all  power,  I  am 
the  expected  King ;  and  if  I  do  not  come  to  his 
help  in  the  way  he  expects,  it  is  not  through  lack 
of  power  and  willingness,  but  because  of  reasons 
of  Divine  policy  and  government,  to  which  I  must 
be  true.  Tell  him  to  trust  Me,  though  I  do  not 
deliver  him.  Assure  him  of  the  blessedness  which 
must  accrue  to  those  who  are  not  offended  at  My 
apparent  neglect.  I  will  explain  all  to  him  some 
day."  Thus  He  speaks  still.  He  does  not  at- 
tempt to  apologize,  or  to  explain — He  only  asks 
our  trust ;  and  promises  blessedness  to  those  who 
do  not  stumble  at  life's  mysteries. 
11 


Have  ye  not  read  in  the  law  ?  .  .   .  If  ye  had 
know7i  what  this  meaneth.   .   .   .      Mati.  xH.  5,  7. 

THE  Pharisees  were  great  sticklers  for  rites  and 
ceremonies.  Their  reHgion  consisted  in  little  else 
than  a  perpetual  round  of  outward  observances. 
They  believed  that  they  were  thus  observing  and 
maintaining  the  ancient  Mosaic  code.  In  their 
judgment,  great  human  necessities,  like  hunger, 
must  be  subordinate  to  their  minute  exactions. 
Our  Lord,  on  the  other  hand,  claimed  that  the 
laws  of  God,  as  written  in  the  nature  of  man, 
must  have  a  priority  over  merely  ceremonial  en- 
actments. And  He  showed  that  His  contention 
was  supported  by  those  Scriptures  on  which  they 
rested  their  case. 

There  are  two  ways  of  studying  Scripture. 
The  one  deals  with  its  letter  ;  the  other  compares 
Scripture  with  Scripture,  and  seeks  to  fathom  its 
profound  and  eternal  meaning.  Do  not  read  as 
the  scribe,  but  as  the  Son  of  Man.  Do  not  rest 
in  the  outward  rite,  but  in  the  spiritual  attitude 
of  which  the  rite  was  intended  to  be  the  expres- 
sion. Every^vhere  there  is  One  greater  than  the 
Temple ;  greater  than  the  rigorous  exactions  of 
the  Jewish  Sabbath;  greater  than  the  code  on 
which  Pharisaism  insisted. 

All  through  the  Old  Testament  you  may  detect 
the  spirit  of  the  New ;  the  mercy  in  which  God 
delights,  the  pitiful  appreciation  of  the  frailty  and 
hunger  of  the  nature  He  has  made.  The  New 
Testament  is  in  accord  with  the  Old  of  Scripture, 
and  the  older  Testament  of  man's  nature,  as  God 
made  it  at  first. 

It  is  highly  important  to  remember  this.  The 
God  who  redeems  is  He  who  created  all  things 
by  His  word,  and  for  His  pleasure.  Is  it  likely 
that  He  will  contradict  His  original  design,  and 
undo  what  cost  Him  thought  and  care?  Surely 
not ;  He  is  pledged  only  to  undo  the  evil  which 
has  marred  His  work. 

12 


Unto  you  it  is  given  to  know. 

Matt.  xiii.  ii. 

IN  explanation  of  this  statement,  our  Lord  re- 
iterates His  favorite  saying:  ''Whosoever  hath, 
to  him  shall  be  given,  and  he  shall  have  abund- 
ance." His  disciples  had  already  given  heed  to 
His  words.  On  the  thin  soil  of  their  hearts  the 
precious  seed  had  already  begun  to  germinate : 
and  as  it  throve,  it  prepared  the  way  for  more  and 
more  to  follow. 

In  the  case  of  the  crowds  that  pressed  around 
Him,  however,  there  was  no  such  earnest  giving 
heed.  They  were  content  with  the  interest,  the 
beauty  and  grace,  of  His  nature-teaching,  without 
a  thought  of  its  deeper  aspects.  Hearing,  they 
did  not  understand;  seeing,  they  did  not  per- 
ceive; face  to  face  with  Incarnate  Truth,  they 
thought  only  that  He  had  a  pleasant  voice,  and 
could  play  skillfully  on  the  harp. 

First,  Understand  what  you  hear.  Do  not  be 
content  to  have  a  merely  intellectual  appreciation 
of  its  force  or  beauty ;  but  open  your  heart  to 
meditate  and  ponder  it.  It  is  only  thus  that  truth 
really  strikes  its  roots  into  the  soul,  and  defies  the 
birds. 

Second,  Beware  of  the  response  of  mere  emo- 
tion. Too  many  of  these  receive  the  word  with 
joy.  Their  expressions  of  interest  and  pleasure 
are  loud  and  emphatic.  Tears  course  down  their 
cheeks.  You  think  them  most  hopeful.  But  it 
passes  like  the  sunshine  and  cloud  of  an  April 
day. 

Third,  Guard  against  cares  and  worldly  suc- 
cess. The  first,  of  the  poor ;  the  second,  of  the 
rich.  There  is  not  room  in  the  heart,  or  nutrition 
in  the  soul,  for  the  absorbing  pursuit  of  both  earth 
and  heaven,  of  time  and  eternity. 

Fourth,  Practice  what  you  hear.  Remember 
that  not  the  hearers  of  the  word,  but  the  doers  of 
the  work,  are  blessed. 

13 


Looking  up  to  heaven^  He  blessed^  and  brake,  and 
gave.  Matt.  xiv.  ig. 

STONEWALL  JACKSON  was  once  asked 
what  he  meant  when  he  used  the  expression,  **  In- 
stant in  prayer."  *' I  will  give  you,"  he  said, 
*•  my  idea  of  it  for  illustration,  if  you  will  allow 
it,  and  not  think  that  I  am  setting  myself  up  as  a 
model  for  others."  On  being  assured  that  there 
would  be  no  misjudgment,  he  went  on  to  say :  *'  I 
have  so  fixed  the  habit  in  my  own  mind,  that  I 
never  raise  a  glass  of  water  to  my  lips  without  a 
moment's  asking  of  God's  blessing.  I  never  seal 
a  letter  without  putting  a  word  of  prayer  under 
the  seal.  I  never  take  a  letter  from  the  post  with- 
out a  brief  sending  of  my  thoughts  heavenward. 
I  never  change  my  classes  in  the  section  room 
without  a  minute's  petition  on  the  cadets  who  go 
out  and  those  who  come  in."  "And  don't  you 
sometimes  forget  this ?  "  "I  think  I  can  say  that 
I  scarcely  do ;  the  habit  has  become  almost  as 
fixed  as  breathing." 

And  if  this  was  the  habit  of  the  servant,  how 
much  more  of  the  Master.  Frequently,  in  the 
Gospels,  we  are  told  of  His  heavenward  look. 
It  was  as  though  He  were  always  looking  up  for 
His  Father's  smile,  direction,  and  benediction  ;  so 
that  He  could  be  assured  that  what  He  was  en- 
gaged in  was  in  the  line  of  His  Father's  purpose, 
and  that  He  might  gain  the  needed  power  to  act 
and  wisdom  to  speak. 

It  is  only  thus  that  we  shall  be  able  to  meet  the 
hunger  of  our  times.  Our  slender  stores  will  not 
avail  for  so  great  a  multitude.  But  if  we  bring 
them  to  Him,  and  place  them  in  His  hands,  and 
look  up  to  heaven  for  His  enablement,  we  shall 
break  and  break  again  till  all  have  sufficed  and 
left.  But  this  habit  can  only  be  maintained  by 
those  who  go  into  the  mountain  of  prolonged  fel- 
lowship. 

14 


Be  it  dotie  unto  thee  even  as  thou  wilt. 

Matt.  XV.  28  {K.  v.). 

THIS  was  a  remarkable  permission.  It  is  not 
often  that  Christ  takes  the  key  to  His  stores  out  of 
the  bunch  which  hangs  at  His  girdle,  and  en- 
trusts it  to  a  soul,  saying  in  effect.  Take  what  you 
will.  ''  Of  the  work  of  My  hands,  command  ye 
Me." 

1.  We  m:tst  intercede  for  others. — This 
woman  came  for  her  child.  We  must  always  be 
on  our  guard  when  we  ask  much  for  self,  lest 
somehow  our  requests  be  prompted  by  self-aggran- 
dizement. If  we  do  ask  for  power,  wisdom,  or 
likeness  to  Christ,  let  it  be  that  we  may  help 
others  better.  The  apostle  says  that  Christ 
"loosed  us  from  our  sins  .  .  .  and  made  us 
priests"  (Rev.  i.  5,  6,  r.  v.).  We  all  need  this 
loosing,  that  we  may  become  intercessors. 

2.  We  must  accord  Christ  His  right  place. — 
The  Canaanitish  woman  came  to  Him  as  the  Son 
of  David,  and  He  answered  her  not  a  word. 
She  had  no  claim  on  Him  as  such.  That  He  was 
the  Jews'  Messiah  could  not  help  her.  She  had 
given  Him  that  title  by  courtesy  and  hearsay. 
It  was  necessary  that  by  His  silence  she  should  be 
driven  to  find  Him  for  herself.  When  she  gave 
Him  a  universal  title,  and  said.  Lord,  help  me  ! 
worshipping  at  His  feet,  she  was  a  step  nearer  the 
goal. 

3.  We  must  answer  His  affirmations  with 
Yea. — He  told  her  what  she  was.  She  was  an 
alien  and  outcast.  She  was  not  part  of  the  chosen 
family;  she  must  understand  her  true  position, 
and  take  it.  And  she  did.  She  said.  Yea,  Lord. 
If  you  can  perfectly  accept  God's  will,  so  that  it 
shall  take  the  place  of  your  own  ;  if  you  will  take 
your  place  among  the  dogs  beneath  the  table,  you 
are  sure  to  obtain  answers  to  your  prayers — God 
can  let  you  have  your  way,  because  it  will  be 
His. 

15 


Have  mercy  on  Thee,  Lord !  this  shall  never  be 
unto  Thee.  Matt.  xvi.  22  {k.\'.^  marg.). 

THROUGHOUT  His  life  these  words  were 
perpetually  flung  at  the  heart  of  Christ.  Spare 
Thyself  this  hunger,  the  devil  said  in  the  wilder- 
ness, on  the  threshold  of  His  public  ministry; 
spare  Thyself  this  agonizing  death,  he  said  again 
in  the  garden,  on  the  eve  of  the  crucifixion. 

It  is  noticeable  that  the  cross  was  surrounded 
by  voices  that  repeated  the  same  words.  They 
that  passed  by  it  wagged  their  heads,  and  said 
"  Thou  that  destroyest  the  temple  and  buildest  it 
in  three  days,  save  Thyself. ' '  The  chief  priests 
mocked  Him,  with  the  scribes  and  elders,  and 
said,  "  Can  He  not  save  Himself?  "  The  soldiers 
also  mocked  Him,  coming  to  Him,  offering  Him 
vinegar,  and  saying,  ''  If  Thou  art  the  King  of 
the  Jews,  save  Thyself."  And  one  oi  the  7?iale- 
f actors  which  were  hanged  railed  on  Him,  saying, 
**  Art  not  Thou  the  Christ  ?  save  Thyself  and  us." 
All  these  voices  spoke  after  the  methods  of  hu- 
man wisdom. 

This  made  our  Lord  turn  so  quickly  on  Peter, 
saying,  "  Get  thee  behind  Me,  Satan :  thou  art  a 
stumbling-block  unto  Me."  How  often  are  the 
same  words  addressed  to  us  :  *'  Pity  thyself.  Have 
mercy  on  your  sensitive  human  nature  ;  do  not  be 
too  lavish  with  your  money ;  give  yourself  a  little 
more  license."  But  it  cannot  be.  You  cannot 
save  others  and  yourself  as  well.  Those  that 
would  follow  Jesus  in  His  steps  of  redemptive 
help  to  mankind  must  deny  themselves,  take  up 
the  cross,  and  follow  Him  into  rejection,  shame, 
spitting,  and  the  grave.  They  who  have  mercy 
on  themselves  will  never  show  much  to  others,  or 
receive  much ;  but  the  merciful  are  blessed,  be- 
cause they  obtain  mercy.  Thus  mercy  is  "  twice 
blessed  ;  it  blesses  him  that  gives,  and  him  that 
takes." 

16 


Behold,   there   appeared  imto   them    Moses  and 
Elias  talking  with  Him.  Matt.  xvU.  j. 

LUKE  tells  us  that  they  ''  spake  of  His  de- 
cease which  He  should  accomplish  at  Jerusalem." 
Moses,  as  representing  the  Law,  would  remind 
Him  that  if  as  God's  Lamb  He  must  die,  yet 
as  God's  Lamb  He  would  redeem  countless  myr- 
iads. Elijah,  as  representative  of  the  prophets, 
would  dwell  on  the  glory  that  would  accrue  to 
the  Father.  These  thoughts  were  familiar  enough 
to  the  mind  of  our  blessed  Master;  yet  they 
must  have  gladdened  and  strengthened  Him,  as 
they  fell  from  other  lips  :  the  more  so  when  they 
conversed  together  on  the  certain  splendor  of  the 
resurrection  morning  that  should  follow  His  de- 
cease. 

And  where  could  there  have  been  found  greater 
subjects  than  this  wondrous  death,  and  His  glori- 
ous resurrection  ?  Here  the  attributes  of  God 
find  their  most  complete  and  most  harmonious  ex- 
emplification. Here  the  problems  of  human  sin 
and  salvation  are  met  and  solved.  Here  the  trav- 
ail of  Creation  meets  with  its  answer  and  key. 
Here  are  sown  the  seeds  of  the  new  heavens  and 
earth,  in  which  shall  dwell  righteousness  and 
peace.  Here  is  the  point  of  unity  between  all 
ages,  all  dispensations,  all  beings,  all  worlds. 
Here  blend  men  and  angels ;  departed  spirits  and 
the  denizens  of  other  spheres ;  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  with  Moses  and  Elijah,  and  all  with  the 
great  God  Himself,  whose  voice  is  heard  falling  in 
benediction  from  the  opened  heaven. 

We,  too,  must  often  climb  the  mount  of  trans- 
figuration in  holy  reverie ;  for  the  nearer  we  get 
to  the  Cross,  and  the  more  we  meditate  upon  the 
decease  accomplished  at  Jerusalem,  the  closer  we 
shall  come  into  the  centre  of  things ;  the  deeper 
will  be  our  harmony  with  ourselves  and  all  other 
noble  spirits  and  with  God  Himself. 
17 


Go  and  tell  him  his  fault  between  thee  and  him 
alone.  Matt.  xviU.  75. 

*'  WHERE  is  thy  brother,  child  ?  " 

*'  I  do  not  know,  Lord  ;  I  have  not  seen  or 
spoken  to  him  these  many  days ;  and,  as  far  as  I 
am  concerned,  I  would  not  mind  if  I  never  saw 
him  again ;  he  is  as  good  as  lost  to  me." 

"Hast  thou  wronged  him,  that  this  gulf  has 
yawned  between  you  ?  Remember  that  I  said,  if 
on  coming  to  the  altar,  thou  shouldest  remember 
that  thy  brother  hath  some  complaint  against  thee, 
thou  wert  to  leave  thy  gift,  and  seek  to  be  rec- 
onciled ;  then  return  to  offer  thy  gift." 

"  Yes,  Lord,  I  remember  well.  But  that  is  not 
the  case  now;  my  brother  has  nothing  against 
me;  he  is  in  the  wrong,  not  I;  he  has  tres- 
passed against  me,  not  I  against  him.  It  is  there- 
fore for  him  to  come  to  me,  not  for  me  to  go  to 
him." 

"  Is  it  likely  that  he  will  come  to  thee? " 

*'  I  do  not  think  it  is.  Lord.  He  is  not  one  of 
Thy  disciples ;  and  it  is  most  unlikely  that  he  will 
ever  cross  my  threshold  to  apologize  and  ask  for- 
giveness." 

''Then  thou  must  go  to  him,  and  tell  him  his 
fault  between  thee  and  him  alone,  and  do  thy 
best  to  win  him  back." 

*'  But  I  think  he  is  most  likely  to  put  the  wrong 
construction  on  my  going,  and  to  account  that  I 
feel  myself  in  the  wrong." 

"Thou  art  thy  brother's  keeper,  and  thou  must 
win  him  out  of  his  fault,  and  lovelessness,  and 
wandering.  He  is  drifting  away — not  from  thee 
only,  but  from  Me.  I  know  he  was  in  the  wrong 
at  first ;  but  thou  art  in  the  wrong  now,  and  thou 
must  go  and  tell  him  his  fault,  and  try  to  wash  his 
feet  and  win  him  back." 
18 


Moses,  because  of  the  hardness  of  your  hearts , 
suffered  you.   .   .   .  Matt.  xix.  8. 

THIS  is  a  very  profound  principle,  which  is  of 
immense  value  in  dealing  with  Scripture.  There 
were  certain  precepts  and  commands  given  to 
Israel,  which  are  not  of  lasting  obligation,  because 
they  were  stages  in  their  moral  discipline  and 
education.  It  would  have  been  impossible  to  lift 
them  suddenly  from  the  degradation  into  which 
they  had  sunk  in  Egypt,  to  the  glorious  levels  of 
Isaiah  or  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount :  so  God's 
dealings  with  them  were  graduated  and  pro- 
gressive. 

Such  were  the  regulations  about  a  plurality  of 
wives,  the  keeping  of  bond-slaves,  the  treatment 
of  captives,  the  destruction  of  their  foes.  With 
respect  to  these,  our  Lord  says,  Moses  interposed 
a  parenthesis  of  legislation,  which  was  a  stage 
higher  than  anything  known  among  the  surround- 
ing nations,  though  it  was  not  God's  normal  or 
original  code. 

What  was  true  of  Israel  is  true  of  us.  We  do 
not  realize,  in  the  first  stage  of  our  redemption, 
all  that  is  included  in  the  word  '<  Sin."  We  are 
like  men  enveloped  in  morning  mist,  which  per- 
mits them  to  descry  only  the  bolder  outlines  of 
the  cliffs  around  them,  but  as  yet  veils  the  mi- 
nuter eminences  or  depressions.  As  the  mist  clears, 
surrounding  objects  become  ever  more  distinctly 
defined  :  so  that  we  know  more  of  God,  we  know 
ourselves  better,  and  realize  what  sin  is,  and  come 
to  see  it  where  we  had  never  guessed  its  presence. 
Thus  we  condemn  to-day  what  we  permitted  five 
years  ago.  It  is  interesting  to  find  in  these  words 
of  Christ  the  germ  of  an  argument  which  His 
apostle  used  afterward  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Gala- 
tians  with  such  marvellous  force.  He  said  the 
Mosaic  dispensation  was  a  parenthesis;  but  it 
cannot  disannul  God's  primal  institution  (Gal.  iii. 
15-17). 

19 


We  are  able. 

Matt.  XX.  22. 

THIS  is  the  cry  of  youth — ardent,  impulsive, 
self-confident.  It  does  not  wait  to  calculate  the 
ridges  and  hummocks  that  lie  between  it  and  its 
goal,  but  supposes  that  it  will  be  able  to  skate 
the  entire  distance  over  the  glistening  azure- 
blue  ice.  Without  hesitation  it  counts  on  being 
able  to  brave  all  difficulty,  surmount  all  hard- 
ship, drink  the  cup,  and  be  baptized  with  the 
baptism. 

But  these  men  slept  in  Gethsemane,  forsook  the 
Master  when  He  was  arrested,  and  one  of  them 
at  least  failed  Him  at  the  cross.  Creature-might 
cannot  carry  us  in  the  hour  of  our  greatest  peril. 
We  can  vaunt  ourselves  as  we  may ;  but  we  have 
to  learn  that  we  can  only  follow  Christ  in  His  cup 
and  baptism,  after  we  have  been  endued  with  the 
Spirit  of  Pentecost.  I  once  knew  two  who  said 
these  words  to  God,  when  He  presented  them 
with  the  cup  of  suffering  and  death.  They  did 
not  know  all  it  involved;  and  they  confessed 
afterward  that  they  could  never  have  stood  to 
their  choice,  had  they  not  been  graciously  and 
repeatedly  enabled.  But  at  the  end  they  could 
not  wish  it  to  have  been  otherwise. 

How  different  were  the  experiences  of  these 
two  men !  To  one  the  cup  and  baptism  came 
swiftly,  when  he  fell  beneath  the  beheading  axe 
of  Herod  (Acts  xii.  2)  ;  to  the  other  they  came 
in  long,  long  years  of  sharing  in  the  patience  of 
Jesus  Christ.  These  are  different  aspects  of  the 
same  fellowship  of  suffering — swift  death,  or  long 
waiting;  but  in  both  nearness  to  Jesus.  We 
have  no  right  to  cherish  the  assurance  of  sitting 
right  and  left  of  the  throne,  if  that  only  means 
our  own  power,  authority,  glory.  But  if  it  means 
nearness  to  Jesus,  we  may  count  on  it  with  the 
utmost  assurance. 

20 


All  tht?igs,  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  prayer y 
believing,  ye  shall  receive.  Matt.  xxi.  22. 

THIS  was  a  very  remarkable  answer  ;  showing 
that  the  Lord,  in  His  human  Hfe,  was  the  Author 
and  Finisher  of  the  Hfe  of  faith.  He  did  not 
quote  His  Divine  power  and  Godhead  as  the 
cause  of  the  withering  of  the  fig-tree ;  but  pro- 
ceeded to  give  a  lesson  on  faith,  as  much  as  to 
say  that  He  had  wrought  the  miracle  by  faith  in 
His  Father,  and  that  they  could  do  as  He  had 
done,  if  only  they  had  a  similar  faith. 

Where  we  get  wrong  in  prayer  is  that  we  are 
so  self-willed.  We  set  ourselves  to  pray  for 
things ;  we  vow  to  sit  up  all  night  to  bring  God 
round  to  our  way  of  thinking;  we  use  strong 
cryings,  tears,  and  protestations;  we  endeavor 
to  work  ourselves  into  a  frame  of  faith ;  we 
think  we  believe ;  we  shut  the  doors  of  our  heart 
against  the  tiniest  suggestion  or  suspicion  that 
we  do  not  believe.  And  then  we  are  surprised 
if  the  fig-tree  does  not  wither,  or  the  mountain 
remove. 

Where  are  we  wrong?  It  is  not  hard  to  see. 
There  is  too  much  of  self  and  the  energy  of  the 
flesh  in  all  this.  We  can  only  believe  for  a  thing 
when  we  are  in  such  union  with  God  that  His 
thought  and  purpose  can  freely  flow  into  us, 
suggesting  what  we  should  pray  for,  and  lead- 
ing us  to  that  point  in  which  there  is  a  perfect 
sympathy  and  understanding  between  us  and  the 
Divine  mind.  Faith  is  always  the  product  of 
such  a  frame  as  this.  Be  sure  that  you  are 
on  the  line  of  God's  purpose.  Wait  for  Him 
till  the  impulses  of  nature  have  subsided,  and 
the  soul  is  hushed  and  still.  Then  the  Spirit 
will  lead  you  to  ask  what  is  in  the  will  of  God 
to  give,  and  you  will  know  instantly  that  the 
Spirit  intercedes  within  you  according  to  the  will 
of  God. 

21 


Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  .  .  .  with  all 
thy  mind.  Matt.  xxii.  37. 

THIS  was  Adam's  blessed  privilege  in  Eden ; 
but  he  missed  it.  The  love  of  self  took  the  place 
of  the  love  of  God.  It  is  the  aim  of  our  blessed 
Lord  to  bring  us  back  to  that  position.  Perfect 
love  is  the  sunlit  peak  to  which  His  whole  redemp- 
tion tends.  And  perfect  love  would  be  perfect 
holiness.  If  a  man  were  to  love  God  and  his 
neighbor  as  his  first  and  chief  and  all-absorbing 
passion,  there  would  be  no  room  for  sin  to  estab- 
lish itself  in  his  heart. 

But  does  not  this  command  seem  altogether  im- 
practicable ?  It  does ;  and  it  is  impracticable  to 
our  mortal  flesh.  It  is  high ;  we  cannot  attain  to 
it.  Yet  the  very  sublimity  of  the  demand  is  in- 
tended to  drive  us  to  the  Holy  Ghost.  He  sheds 
abroad  the  love  of  God  in  hearts  which  are  fully 
yielded  to  Him.  If  you  desire  that  this  love 
should  be  your  privilege,  lie  down  low  before  the 
flow  of  the  River  of  Life,  and  it  will  fill  every 
gully  and  inlet  of  your  nature. 

But,  perhaps  you  are  not  of  an  emotional  na- 
ture ;  you  cannot  gleam  and  flash,  and  shed  tears, 
and  light  up  with  smiles.  You  cannot  love  God 
with  your  heart  /  Then  see,  the  Lord  says  that 
you  can  love  Him  with  your  mind,  i.  e.,  with 
your  intellect,  your  choice,  your  will.  Probably 
this  is  where  you  have  to  begin.  Give  your 
mind,  your  will,  your  power  of  choice  to  God. 
Make  Him  first.  Ask  Him  to  take  the  helm 
of  your  life,  and  to  control,  inspire,  and  direct 
its  every  movement.  Crown  Him  King.  And 
when  the  will,  which  is  the  high  priest  of  your 
nature,  has  put  its  crown  of  life  on  the  head  of 
Christ,  who  is  God  Incarnate,  all  the  emotions 
and  affections  and  faculties  of  heart  and  life  will 
come  in  to  swell  the  court  with  their  homage  and 
acclaim. 

28 


How  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
together  ?  Matt.  xxUL  jj. 

ONLY  the  greatest  artists  can  make  immortal 
pictures  from  simple  domestic  scenes.  To  detect 
the  imperishable  and  the  infinite  in  the  common 
and  ordinary,  and  to  preserve  it  in  such  a  form  as 
to  arrest  the  ages,  this  is  the  mark  of  consummate 
power.  But  how  characteristic  of  Jesus — a  broken 
bottleskin,  a  patched  garment,  a  handful  of  girls 
shut  out  of  a  village  feast — these  are  the  subjects 
which  He  painted  into  never-to-be-forgotten  pic- 
tures. Lord,  give  us  childlike  hearts  that  we  may 
see  the  secrets  that  are  hidden  in  common  things  ! 

But  how  this  image  arrests  us  !  Who  has  not 
heard  the  cluck  of  the  hen  when  danger  was 
threatening  her  brood  ?  She  is  quicker  to  detect 
its  proximity  than  her  callow  young;  and  she 
must  needs  insert  herself  between  it  and  them. 
Ah,  how  often  does  the  rush  of  life  drown  the  call 
of  Jesus  to  come  under  His  wing  for  rest  and 
safety ! 

Bunyan  says  that  the  hen  has  a  variety  of  calls, 
some  six  or  eight.  Jesus  also  calls  us  for  differ- 
ent purposes — sometimes  to  nestle  near  His  heart 
for  fellowship;  sometimes  for  rest.  Sometimes 
He  calls  us  to  feast  on  some  rich  dainty,  to  which 
He  has  directed  us  in  the  Word ;  and  sometimes 
to  hide  in  the  shadow  of  His  wings  till  dreaded 
evils  pass  us  by. 

Oh  that  we  more  often  heard  and  obeyed  that 
warning  note  !  Probably  there  is  never  a  tempta- 
tion nor  trial  which  is  not  thus  anticipated  and 
preceded.  When  passion  overcomes  you  by  a  sud- 
den rush,  you  must  not  impute  your  failure  to  any 
lapse  in  your  Saviour's  care.  He  called  you,  but 
you  could  not  hear.  ''  How  often  !  "  Who  can 
enumerate  the  many,  many  times  when  we  have 
been  summoned  by  Jesus  nearer  to  Himself,  but 
would  not  ? 


The  summer  is  nigh. 

Matt.  xxiv.  32. 

YOU  say  that  it  is  rather  overdue.  The  nip- 
ping winds  and  morning  frosts  have  held  back 
vegetation  so  long  that  it  has  seemed  as  if  summer 
would  never  visit  us,  spreading  her  carpet  on  the 
earth,  and  giving  her  intense  hues  to  stream  and 
lake  and  sky.  But  summer  is  nigh  in  spite  of  all 
prognostications  to  the  contrary,  because  He  is 
nigh,  who  is  the  King  of  summer,  whose  presence 
makes  summer.  Be  sure  that  He,  and  therefore 
//,  is  nigh,  even  at  the  doors. 

He  is  always  nigh,  and  those  that  love  Him 
realize  the  perpetual  summer  of  His  presence ;  but 
His  appearing,  the  parousia,  is  nigh.  Presently 
the  swing  doors  will  be  flung  wide,  and  His  tri- 
umphal procession  will  sweep  into  our  view.  Then 
the  millennial  summer  of  the  world  will  break,  and 
her  long  winter  will  be  gone  forever.  Then  the 
bride  will  hear  Him  say:  ''The  winter  is  over 
and  gone;  the  time  of  the  singing  of  birds  is 
come  :  arise,  my  fair  one,  and  come." 

The  rumors  of  war  that  frighten  the  nations ; 
the  slackening  faith  and  waning  love;  the  dis- 
semination of  the  Gospel  to  all  lands ;  the  great 
movement  now  in  progress  in  the  midst  of  the 
ancient  people  of  God  ;  the  decrease  of  conver- 
sion work  in  favor  of  the  preparation  of  the  Bride 
for  the  Bridegroom — all  these  are  like  the  tender 
shoots  of  the  fig-tree  which  show  that  the  Lord  is 
at  hand.  Oh,  lonely  and  sequestered  ones,  by 
His  appearing,  and  by  our  gathering  together  unto 
Him,  be  of  good  courage,  and  do  the  King's 
work. 

Do  you  want  perpetual  summer  in  your  soul  ? 
There  is  only  one  condition  which  needs  to  be 
fulfilled.  You  must  leave  the  northern  climes  to 
dwell  between  the  Tropics,  where  the  sun  is  al- 
ways on  the  throne  of  the  sky.  Thy  sun  shall  no 
more  go  down. 

24 


He  also  that  had  received  the  one  talent  came. 

Matt.  XXV.  24  (r,  v.). 

IT  is  remarkable  that  the  man  who  had  one 
talent  should  hide  it.  If  we  had  been  told  that 
he  who  had  five  had  hidden  one  we  should  not 
have  been  surprised  ;  but  for  the  man  who  had 
only  one  to  hide  it ! — this  is  startling ;  but  it  is 
true  to  life. 

The  people  whose  talents  and  opportunities  are 
very  slight  and  slender  are  they  who  are  tempted 
to  do  nothing  at  all.  '' I  can  do  so  very  little; 
it  will  not  make  much  difference  if  I  do  nothing ; 
I  shall  not  be  missed ;  my  tiny  push  is  not  needed 
to  turn  the  scale."  That  is  the  way  they  talk. 
They  forget  that  an  ounce-weight  may  turn  the 
scales  where  hundred-weights  are  balanced.  They 
do  not  realize  that  the  last  flake  of  white  snow  just 
oversets  the  gathering  avalanche,  and  sends  it  into 
the  vales  beneath. 

Are  you  one  of  these  slenderly-endowed  ones  ? 
And  are  you  doing  all  you  can  ?  Are  you  doing 
anything  ?  Even  though  you  cannot  do  much  in 
your  isolation,  you  might  join  with  others  and 
do  much.  You  might  invest  your  little  all  in  the 
bank  of  the  Church,  and  trade  as  part  of  that 
heavenly  corporation.  Oh,  disinter  your  one  tal- 
ent !  Be  sure  you  have  one ;  ask  the  Master 
where  and  what  it  is ;  place  yourself  at  His  dis- 
posal. If  it  is  only  to  carry  refreshment  to  the 
harvesters — do  that.  Be  thou  faithful  in  thy  very 
litde. 

We  need  not  wait  for  the  great  future,  to  ob- 
tain this  multiplication  or  withdrawal  of  our  tal- 
ents. They  are  already  waxing  or  waning  in  our 
hands.  There  are  many  among  us  who,  as  life 
has  progressed,  have  come  into  the  use  of  powers 
of  which  at  first  they  were  perfectly  ignorant; 
whilst  others  are  losing,  through  misuse,  the  little 
they  had. 

25 


My  blood  of  the  covenant. 

Matt.  xxvi.  28  (K.  v.). 

THE  first  covenant  was  not  ratified  without 
blood.  For  when  every  commandment  had  been 
spoken  by  Moses,  he  took  the  blood  of  the  calves 
and  goats,  sprinkled  the  people,  and  said.  This  is 
the  blood  of  the  covenant  (Heb.  ix.  19,  20).  So 
the  second  covenant  must  be  ratified  by  blood ; 
not  by  that  of  calves  and  goats,  but  by  the  pre- 
cious blood  of  Jesus  Himself.  He  who  made  the 
covenant  sealed  it  with  His  blood,  that  we  might 
have  strong  assurance. 

But  Christ  has  put  the  cup  which  holds  the 
emblem  of  His  blood  into  our  hands,  and  bids  us 
drink  it.  What,  then,  do  we  mean  when  at  the 
Supper  we  lift  that  sacred  cup  to  our  lips  ?  Are 
we  not  saying  by  that  significant  act.  Remember 
thy  covenant  ?  Are  we  not  reminding  Jesus  that 
we  are  relying  upon  Him  to  do  His  part  ?  Are 
we  not  pledging  ourselves  to  Him  as  His  own, 
bound  to  Him  by  indissoluble  ties,  and  satisfied 
with  His  most  blessed  service  ? 

Among  the  most  precious  promises  of  the  new 
covenant  is  that  in  which  God  promises  to  remem- 
ber our  sins  no  more.  Here  is  the  ground  which 
enables  God  to  forgive  so  freely.  The  blood  has 
been  shed  for  many  unto  the  remission  of  sins ; 
the  claims  of  infinite  justice  have  been  met ;  the 
righteous  demands  of  a  broken  law  satisfied ;  the 
barriers  have  been  removed  that  might  have  re- 
strained the  manifestation  of  Divine  love,  though 
they  could  not  obstruct  the  love.  And  now  we 
may  sit  with  Christ  at  His  table  in  His  kingdom, 
not  rebels,  but  welcome  guests. 

Also  among  the  promises  of  the  new  covenant 
is  that  in  which  God  promises  that  we  shall  be 
His  people,  and  He  our  God.  This  item  also  is 
presented  by  us  in  humble  expectancy,  whilst,  in 
expectant  faith,  we  say.  Do  as  Thou  hast  said. 
26 


Him  they  compelled  to  go  with  them,  that  he  might 
bear  His  cross.  Matt.  xxvU.  32  (r.  v.). 

IF  we  may  judge  from  the  familiar  way  in 
which  Mark  speaks  of  the  sons  of  this  Cyrenian, 
who  the  soldiers  brutally  compelled  to  carry  our 
Saviour's  cross,  we  should  infer  that  from  this 
hour  he  became  a  Christian.  He  had  little  sus- 
pected such  a  thing  in  the  early  morning,  when 
he  left  his  lodging  to  attend  to  his  business  ;  but, 
being  constrained  to  go  to  Calvary,  he  lingered 
there  of  his  own  accord  through  those  anxious 
hours,  and  was  led  to  feel  that  such  a  sufferer,  to 
whom  even  Nature  paid  such  homage,  was  worthy 
henceforth  to  receive  his  loyalty. 

But  how  many  of  us  are  carrying  our  cross  be- 
cause we  are  compelled  !  There  seems  no  alter- 
native but  to  carry  the  dead  weight  of  our  cross 
with  us  everywhere,  only  wishing  a  hundred  times 
each  day  that  we  might  have  respite.  Dear  soul, 
that  cross  is  yet  going  to  be  the  greatest  blessing 
of  your  life  if  it  lead  you  to  the  Crucified,  and 
you  find  in  Him  what  will  transform  it  into  the 
ladder  which  links  earth  with  heaven,  swaying 
beneath  angel  tread. 

If  Simon  became  a  Christian,  with  what  rap- 
ture must  he  have  reviewed  that  incident  in  his 
life  !  How  easy  it  would  have  been  to  carry  the 
cross  had  he  known  Jesus  as  he  came  to  know 
Him  afterward !  He  would  have  needed  no 
compelling  !  So  if  you  saw  the  will  of  Jesus  in 
your  cross,  and  that  you  were  carrying  it  v/ith 
Him,  how  much  easier  it  would  be  !  But  that  is 
so.  He  is  in  it.  Bear  it  with  Him  ;  out  of  the 
cross  will  fall  a  shower  of  flowers. 

There  is  no  such  thing  as  chance  in  our  lives. 
It  might  have  seemed  such  that  Simon  was  com- 
ing into  Jerusalem  at  that  moment.  It  was 
shown,  however,  to  be  part  of  the  Eternal  counsel. 
Dare  to  believe  in  the  Divine  purpose  which  or- 
ders your  cross. 

27 


The  angel  answered  and  said  unto  the  women^ 
fear  not  ye  /  Matt,  xxviii.  5. 

THE  emphasis  is  on  the  pronoun  ye.  The 
angel  meant,  As  for  these  sentinels  that  are  quak- 
ing in  dread  and  becoming  as  dead  men,  it  is 
meet  and  natural  that  they  should  do  so.  They 
are  strangers  to  Him  whom  ye  seek,  and  are  set 
here  to  do  the  work  of  His  foes.  But  there  is  no 
need  for  those  that  seek  Jesus  to  fear. 

Are  you  seeking  the  forgiveness  of  your  sins 
through  His  blood  ?  Fear  not  ye  !  Do  not  fear 
that  they  are  too  many  to  be  forgiven.  Do  not 
fear  that  you  have  not  the  right  faith.  Do  not 
fear  that  you  will  find  His  door  shut.  Do  not 
fear  that  He  will  always  be  reminding  you  of 
what  you  have  cost  Him.  Do  not  fear  that  He 
will  let  you  drift  from  Him  again.  Ye  seek  the 
Lord  who  was  crucified.     Fear  not  ! 

Are  you  seeking  a  closer  identification  with  His 
death  ?  Fear  not  I  There  is  no  possibility  of 
realizing  the  life  which  is  life  indeed,  except 
through  identification  with  the  death  and  grave 
of  Jesus.  We  must  sink  deep  down  into  reunion 
with  Him  who  lay  there  as  our  representative. 
But  as  God  takes  us  at  our  word,  and  begins  to 
strip  us  of  all  we  had  taken  pride  in ;  as  the  fear 
of  what  may  be  involved  crosses  our  hearts  with 
its  chill  dread — again  we  may  be  assured  as  we 
hear  the  angel  say,  ''  Fear  not,  ye  who  seek  Jesus 
that  was  crucified." 

And  when  at  last  you  are  seeking  to  follow 
Him  through  the  valley  of  shadow — Fear  not  ! 
You  will  never  see  Him  as  He  is,  till  this  mortal 
is  surrendered,  and  the  house  not  made  with 
hands  entered.  But  if  the  heart  faints,  and  the 
flesh  fails,  fear  not  ye,  who  through  that  mysteri- 
ous change  seek  Jesus  that  was  crucified,  but  now 
liveth  forevermore  at  the  right  hand  of  God. 


He  was  with  the  wild  beasts  ;   and  the  angels 
ministered  unto  Him.  Mark  i.  ij. 

IN  what  different  circumstances  is  the  last 
Adam  to  the  first  !  He  began  in  a  garden  which 
the  Lord  God  had  planted ;  but  his  great  Anti- 
type in  a  wilderness,  the  thorns  of  which  spoke 
of  that  primal  sin.  But  whereas  the  first  Adam 
transformed  the  garden  into  a  wilderness,  the  last 
will  convert  all  desert  places  into  gardens — 
whether  they  be  in  the  heart,  or  the  world  around 
— so  that  they  shall  blossom  as  the  rose. 

To  Adam  the  beasts  came,  that  he  might  name 
them ;  but  at  the  coming  of  the  last  Adam  they 
were  wild.  ''  He  was  with  the  w//^  beasts."  Yet 
they  were  tame  to  his  pure  manhood.  <*  He  had 
dominion  over  the  works  of  God's  hands."  On 
his  brow  the  crown  of  royalty  over  the  inferior 
races,  which  man  had  lost,  was  already  placed. 
Is  it  not  also  true  that  holy  men  still  have  power 
over  the  lower  creation  ?  Certainly  Francis  of 
Assissi  had.  And  in  the  ages,  yet  future,  the 
children  shall  play,  unhurt,  amid  the  wild  beasts 
of  the  forest. 

Again  it  is  true  of  thee,  O  son  of  man,  that, 
like  thy  Lord,  thou  art  between  the  wild  beasts 
and  the  angels.  On  the  one  side  thou  touchest 
the  lower,  and  on  the  other  the  higher.  At  every 
moment  thou  art  called  to  choose  between  these 
twain.  Thy  body  calls  thee  this  way,  and  thy 
spirit  that.  Be  sure  to  deny  the  lower  appetites ; 
rule  them ;  be  king  and  lord  in  the  realm  of  thy 
soul.  Make  them  crouch  around  thee,  as  the 
lions  of  Daniel's  den.  Get  thy  Lord  to  master 
them  for  thee.  Else  thou  wilt  miss  the  angels 
of  God,  who  come  to  encamp  around  thee,  and 
minister  to  thee,  as  one  of  the  heirs  of  salva- 
tion. Was  it  here  that  Christ  learned  to  con- 
trast His  homelessness  with  the  lairs  of  the 
beasts  ? 

29 


New  wine  into  fresh  wine- skins. 

Mark  a.  22  (r.  v.). 

AH,  our  Lord  !  Thou  hast  been  speaking  of 
the  bridegroom  and  His  coming  to  the  Feast. 
Thou  remindest  us  of  the  olden  comparison  of 
Thy  love  as  better  than  wine,  and  of  Thy  first 
miracle  at  Cana  of  Galilee.  May  Thy  love  be 
poured  into  our  hearts  as  the  fresh  juice  crushed 
from  the  grapes  !  We  have  no  love  of  our  own 
to  offer  Thee ;  but,  oh,  pour  Thy  love  into  hearts 
that  yearn  to  love  Thee  with  Thy  love.  And  let 
it  not  be  only  the  memory  of  the  love  that  was, 
but  the  living,  fresh  enjoyment  of  the  love  that  is 
ever  new.  The  new  wine  of  Thy  love  is  what 
we  long  for,  that  it  may  sweep  into  our  hearts  as 
the  spring  tide  along  the  golden  sands,  which  it 
frees  from  their  accumulation  of  debris  and  waste. 
Oh  for  the  constraints  of  Thy  love — new,  fresh, 
living ! 

But  the  Master  says.  Children,  if  you  have 
your  request,  the  new  wine  may  refuse  to  take  on 
with  the  old  shapes ;  it  will  make  for  itself  new 
channels  and  forms  of  manifestations;  when 
others  fast,  you  will  feast ;  when  others  feast,  you 
will  be  sad.  You  will  be  counted  eccentric  and 
peculiar.  Men  will  murmur  at  you,  and  find 
fault.  They  may  even  cast  you  out  of  their 
churches  and  social  circles. 

There  is  but  one  answer :  Leave  us  not  to  our- 
selves. Permit  us  not  to  follow  the  promptings 
and  suggestions  of  our  undisciplined  wills;  but 
provide  for  us  the  new  wine-skins  also.  Show  us 
what  Thou  wouldst  have  us  be  and  do ;  and  let 
the  methods  in  which  our  hearts'  devotion  shall 
express  itself  be  so  lovely,  so  befitting,  so  helpful 
to  the  world,  and  so  full  of  God,  that  men  may 
recognize  Thy  hand,  and  adore  Thee.  Let  not 
Thy  love  be  spilled,  but  stored  for  the  refresh- 
ment of  others  through  our  lives.  Oh,  give  us 
love! 

30 


He  appointed  twelve. 

Mark  in.  i^, 

THIS  is  the  threefold  work  of  the  Church,  and 
of  each  disciple. 

That  we  might  be  with  Him. — The  Master 
dearly  loves  our  company.  Let  us  seek  it  more. 
Not  necessarily  praying,  or  praising,  or  learning — 
but  just  being  quietly  with  Him.  It  was  said  of 
a  holy  man,  Mons.  de  Rentz,  that  his  union  and 
converse  with  God  were  so  wonderful,  that  after 
he  had  spent  several  hours  therein,  he  found  him- 
self in  the  end  as  if  he  had  only  then  begun  it, 
except  only  that  he  had  then  yet  more  desire  to 
continue  it.  And  at  length  he  arrived  to  that 
height  that  it  seemed  as  though  he  never  ended  it 
at  all ;  being  wholly  and  constantly  in  inward  rec- 
ollection and  application  to  God.  After  whose 
example  let  us  press,  that  we  may  enjoy  like  near 
approach  to  God,  and  our  lives  be  suitably  ordered 
for  His  glory. 

That  He  might  send  them  forth  to  preach, — He 
cannot  come  forth  from  the  secret  chamber  of 
eternity  to  preach,  as  once  He  was  wont  to  do ; 
and  therefore  He  is  ever  raising  up  voices,  wit- 
nesses, lips  which  He  teaches  how  to  speak,  and 
touches  with  His  live  coal.  Has  He  not  sent  you 
forth,  if  not  by  lip,  yet  by  life  to  bear  witness  to 
His  love  ?  Like  the  seraphim,  if  you  have  two 
pair  of  wings  for  reverent  modesty,  you  have  at 
least  one  pair  for  flight.  Oh,  breathe  the  prayer, 
Send  me. 

That  they  might  have  authority  over  demons. — 
The  power  of  Satan  is  strong ;  it  mastered  Adam, 
but  it  met  more  than  its  match  in  the  Christ-na- 
ture. If  that  nature  is  regnant  in  you,  you,  too, 
will  have  power  over  all  the  power  of  the  enemy. 
Nothing  shall  by  any  means  hurt  you,  and  you 
will  be  able  to  deliver  others  who  have  long  been 
held  captive. 

31 


Cares ;  .  .  .  Riches ;  .  .  .  Lusts. 

Mark  iv.  ig. 

THERE  is  enough  nutriment  in  the  land  for 
the  thorns  alone  or  for  the  wheat  alone,  but  not 
for  both ;  and  so  there  is  a  brief  struggle  for  mas- 
tery, in  which  the  sturdy  weed  prevails  against 
the  slender  wheat,  and  chokes  it.  Nourishment 
which  should  go  to  its  support  is  drained  away 
from  it ;  and  though  it  does  not  actually  expire, 
it  leads  a  struggling  existence,  and  becomes  un- 
fruitful.    What  are  these  weeds  ? 

For  the  poor  man — Cares. — The  Greek  word 
for  care  is  Division.  Cares  divide  our  heart,  and 
distract  it  in  many  different  directions.  What 
shall  we  eat?  What  shall  we  drink?  Where- 
withal shall  we  be  clothed  ?  How  shall  we  meet 
our  rent  and  other  expenses  ?  It  is  almost  impos- 
sible to  settle  to  our  prayer,  or  Bible-study,  or 
Christian  work,  or  to  the  culture  of  the  soul-life, 
while  questions  like  these  intrude.  What  shall 
the  poor  man  do  to  prevent  the  word  becoming 
unfruitful  ?  He  must  take  his  cares  to  his  Father, 
and  by  one  act  deposit  them  in  His  safe-keeping. 
And  thereafter,  as  a  care  tries  to  break  in  on  the 
peace  of  his  heart,  he  must  treat  it  as  a  positive 
temptation,  handing  it  over  to  God. 

For  the  prosperous  man — Riches. — They  will 
distract  as  much  as  anxiety  does.  How  much 
they  amount  to  !  Oh,  the  endless  figurings  in  the 
brain — how  to  keep,  or  invest,  or  increase.  The 
case  for  him  is  to  look  on  all  he  has  as  a  steward- 
ship for  God,  deducting  only  a  moderate  percent- 
age for  himself. 

For  us  all — Lusts. — Strong  and  inordinate  de- 
sires for  what  may  be  right  in  itself,  but  which  we 
follow  with  extravagant  zest.  What  is  right  in  it- 
self may  become  wrong  if  we  put  it  in  God's 
place,  and  allow  it  to  monopolize  us  unduly.  Oh, 
Great  Husbandman,  root  up  the  thorns  by  Thy 
Holy  Spirit ! 

32 


Thy  daughter  is  dead :  why  troublest  thou  the 
Master  any  further  ?  Mark  v.  jj". 

WHAT  hopelessness  !  They  had  watched  the 
sweet  flower  fade,  till  no  color  was  left  on  the  pale 
cheek,  and  the  merry  voice  was  still ;  and  then 
they  thought  of  the  Galilean  Teacher:  '<Why 
cost  Him  time  and  trouble  ?  His  visit  will  be  use- 
less now  !  It  was  very  kind  of  Him  to  be  willing 
to  come  !  But  it  is  now  of  no  use  !  Very  kind ; 
but  no  use." 

We  go  to  God  in  comparatively  small  trials, 
and  think  He  can  help  us.  But  there  are  times 
when  we  say:  It  is  no  use  troubling  further; 
we  must  just  bear  our  trial  as  well  as  we  can, 
God  Himself  cannot  help  us.  Can  He  give 
back  that  twin-soul?  Can  He  restore  the  love 
that  has  died  out  ?  Can  He  undo  this  unhappy 
marriage?  Can  He  deliver  from  that  lifelong 
paralysis  ?  Life  is  extinct ;  hope  is  dead ;  the 
light  has  dipped  below  the  horizon.  It  is  no  use 
to  trouble  God  or  man.  We  have  no  alternative 
but  to  suffer  till  eternity  explain  the  mysteries  of 
time. 

But  Jesus  knows  the  way  out.  He  says  in  His 
sweet  undertone,  *' Fear  not!  only  believe."  He 
has  the  keys  of  death.  He  never  would  have  let 
things  come  to  this  awful  pass  by  His  delay  unless 
He  had  known  that,  even  if  the  worse  came  to 
the  worst,  all  would  end  well.  He  has  purposely 
delayed  till  this,  that  He  might  have  the  better 
opportunity  of  showing  you  what  God  can  do. 
Fear  not  !  the  hand  of  the  Almighty  Saviour  has 
yours  within  its  grasp.  He  will  not  let  you  stum- 
ble as  you  go  down  this  dark  staircase  by  His 
side.  Only  believe :  have  faith  in  Him.  All 
may  seem  very  mysterious  now,  but  you  will  come 
to  see  that  it  was  the  wisest  and  best  after  all. 
You  shall  yet  clasp  to  your  heart  the  lost  one,  ar- 
rayed in  resurrection  beauty. 
33 


They  told  Hhn  all  things,  whatsoever  they  had 
done,  and  taught.  Mark  vL  30  (r.  v.). 

TALKING  things  over  with  Jesus  !  It  is  a 
precious  secret !  When  one  has  been  out  in  the 
world,  it  is  dehghtful  to  talk  over  what  has  hap- 
pened in  the  seclusion  of  the  home.  We  have 
read  of  a  wife  who  reserved  one  room  in  the 
house,  which  no  one  was  permitted  to  enter  but 
her  husband  and  herself;  and  there  the.y  inter- 
changed their  mutual  confidences.  So  it  is  a 
blessed  habit  to  talk  over  everything  with  Jesus, 
and  to  review  the  events  of  the  past  beneath  the 
light  of  His  loving  eyes. 

"  We  have  had  much  success,  Master,'^  we 
cry;  "the  cities  were  moved;  the  devils  were 
subject;  the  crowds  followed  us  everywhere." 
Ah,  children,  He  seems  to  say.  Those  who  cry 
*'Hosanna"  to-day  will  cry  "Crucify"  to-mor- 
row :  the  real  work  of  God  is  not  done  amid  con- 
gratulating crowds,  but  in  the  heart's  depths,  and 
in  the  ante-chamber.  See  that  ye  dwell  not  on 
the  excitement  of  the  outward  reception,  lest  you 
attribute  your  success  to  something  in  yourselves, 
and  pride  yourselves  upon  it,  and  become  unsuit- 
able for  My  use.     All  success  comes  from  above. 

"  We  have  been  greatly  persecuted,  and  our 
mission  seems  to  have  been  a  failure,  Master," 
we  cry  at  another  time.  "Who  hath  believed 
our  report,  and  to  whom  is  the  arm  of  the  Lord 
revealed  ? ' '  Care  not  for  it,  the  same  wise  Coun- 
sellor replies :  I  at  least  am  satisfied ;  I  will  see 
to  it  that  your  reward  is  according  to  your  faith- 
fulness, if  not  to  your  success ;  and  there  shall  be 
a  remnant  of  good  soil  that  shall  repay  one  hun- 
dredfold. 

Thus  His  loving  words  extract  the  poison  from 
success,  and  rally  us  from  despondency.  Oh, 
Christian  workers,  get  into  the  secret  of  His  pres- 
ence, that  He  may  correct,  criticise,  or  encourage 
as  He  please. 

34 


This  He  said,  making  all  meats  clean. 

Mark  vii.  ig  (r.  v.). 
THIS  is  a  remarkable  rendering  of  the  Revisers, 
which  has  the  support  of  their  profound  scholar- 
ship ;  and  inaugurates  an  era  in  the  history  of  the 
Levitical  institutions.  Before  this  hour  arrived 
men  were  clean  if  they  ate  certain  kinds  of  food, 
and  unclean  if  they  ate  others.  But  from  this 
moment,  the  Evangelist  tells  us,  these  outward 
distinctions  were  abolished.  Henceforth  all 
meats  were  to  be  viewed  by  the  followers  of  Jesus 
as  equally  clean.  There  is,  however,  need  that 
we  should  remember  two  or  three  things  in  re- 
spect to  food,  (i)  That  every  creature  of  God 
is  good,  and  nothing  is  to  be  refused  if  it  can  be 
received  with  thanksgiving.  The  act  of  thanks- 
giving is  the  test  for  the  fitness  and  unfitness  of 
food,  as  the  ancient  sign  was  supposed  to  be  when 
made  by  the  knight  over  a  glass  of  wine  offered 
by  a  stranger.  Do  not  touch  what  you  cannot 
thank  God  for. 

(2)  Take  care  to  eat  for  the  need  of  the  body 
rather  than  for  its  pleasure. — There  are  a  great 
many  dainties  and  luxuries  heaped  on  our  tables 
which  we  take  simply  for  the  pleasure  of  eating. 
It  is  here  that  we  are  assailed  with  temptation, 
and  need  to  be  on  our  guard.  The  fact  of  food 
being  pleasant  eating  is  not  in  itself  sufficient  to 
justify  our  taking  it.  It  may  clog  our  digestion, 
and  impair  our  power  for  thought  and  prayer  and 
service. 

(3)  Be  moderate  in  the  amount  you  eat. — 
Quite  as  many  over-eat  as  over-drink.  We 
should  always  have  the  girded  loin.  The  major- 
ity of  the  diseases  of  modern  life  have  been  traced 
to  the  habit  of  eating  to  excess.  We  are  told  by 
eminent  authorities  that  we  ought  not  to  rise  from 
table  with  the  sense  of  having  eaten  to  the  full. 
Let  your  moderation  in  this  also  be  known  to  all 
men. 

35 


He  sighed  deeply  in  His  spirit. 

Mark  via.  12. 

THIS  Evangelist  tsvice  over  calls  attention  to 
the  Lord's  sighs — in  vii.  34,  and  here.  A  sigh  is 
one  of  the  most  touching  and  significant  tokens  of 
excessive  grief!  When  Nature  is  too  deeply 
overwrought  to  remember  her  necessary  inspira- 
tions, and  has  to  compensate  for  their  omission  by 
one  deep-drawn  breath,  we  sigh,  we  sigh  deeply 
in  our  spirit. 

Looking  up  to  heaven  J  He  sighed. — As  the  deaf 
mute  stood  before  Him — an  image  of  all  the 
closed  hearts  around  Him ;  of  all  the  inarticulate 
unexpressed  desires ;  of  all  the  sin  and  sorrow  of 
mankind — the  sensitive  heart  of  Jesus  responded 
with  a  deep-drawn  sigh.  But  there  was  simulta- 
neously a  heavenward  look,  which  mingled  infinite 
hope  in  it.  If  the  sigh  spoke  of  His  tender  sym- 
pathy, the  look  declared  His  close  union  with 
God,  by  virtue  of  which  He  was  competent  to 
meet  the  direst  need.  Whenever  you  sigh,  look 
up  to  heaven.  Heaven's  light  turns  tears  to 
jewels  ! 

He  sighed  deeply. — The  obdurate  and  im- 
penetrable hardness  of  the  Pharisees ;  their  willful 
misinterpretation  of  His  words  and  mission ;  their 
pride  and  bigotry — wrung  the  Lord's  heart  with 
bitterness.  He  turned  sorrowfully  away.  There 
was  no  possibility  of  furnishing  help,  since  on 
their  side  there  was  no  desire  for  it,  or  belief  in 
Him.  Perhaps  such  sighs  still  break  from  His 
heart,  as  He  views  mankind ;  but  through  them 
He  is  doing  His  best  to  bring  about  the  time 
when  all  sorrow  and  sighing  shall  flee  away  for- 
ever. 

The  Son  of  God,  in  doing  good,  would  look  to 
heaven  and  sigh ;  but  His  sighs  were  followed  by 
the  touch  and  word  of  power.      Let  us  not  be 
content  with  the  sigh  of  sympathy  and  regret. 
36 


If  Thou  canst  .  .  .  And  Jesus  said  unto  him^  If 
thou  canst  !  Mark  ix.  22,  23. 

YES,  there  was  an  if  in  this  sad  case.  But  the 
father  put  it  in  the  wrong  place.  He  put  it  against 
Christ's  power,  ''If  Thou  canst  do  anything." 
But  it  was  really  on  the  side  of  his  own  ability  to 
believe.  If  only  he  believed,  all  else  would  be 
easily  possible.  Even  though  his  faith  were  small, 
it  would  suffice ;  the  tiniest  seed  can  appropriate 
the  chemical  products  of  the  soil,  and  transmute 
them  into  digestible  products ;  the  narrowest 
channel  will  suffice  for  the  passage  of  the  waters 
of  the  whole  ocean  if  you  give  time  enough. 
Let  us  not  worry  about  the  greatness  or  smallness 
of  our  faith ;  the  main  point  is  as  to  whether  it  is 
directed  toward  the  living  Saviour. 

There  are  many  issues  to  which  these  words 
may  be  applied.  If  Jesus  can  save  me  from  the 
power  of  sin  !  No ;  ^  thou  canst  believe.  He 
can.  If  Jesus  can  deliver  out  of  a  mesh  of  temp- 
tation and  perplexity  !  No ;  //"  thou  canst  be- 
lieve. He  will.  If  Jesus  can  revive  His  work 
mightily  to  the  upbuilding  of  His  Church  and  the 
ingathering  of  the  lost !  No ;  if  thou  canst  be- 
lieve for  it. 

Dost  thou  want  that  faith?  It  may  be  had 
thus.  Look  away  from  difficulty  and  temptation 
to  Jesus;  consider  Him;  feed  thy  faith  on  its 
native  food  of  promise;  familiarize  thyself  with 
fellowship  with  the  promises ;  study  what  He  has 
done  for  others :  thus  thou  wilt  believe.  For 
every  thought  of  thy  little  faith  take  ten  thoughts 
of  His  faithfulness. 

"  All  things  are  possible  to  God, 

To  Christ  the  power  of  God  in  man ; 

To  me,  when  I  am  all  subdued, 

When  I  in  Christ  am  formed  again, 

And  witness  from  my  sins  set  free, 
All  things  are  possible  to  me." 

37 


And  Jesus  was  going  before  the?n. 

Mark  X.  32  (R.  v.). 

THE  radiant  vision  of  the  Transfiguration  was 
deliberately  forsaken,  as  the  Lord  took  the  way  of 
the  cross,  going  to  Jerusalem  to  die.  The  shadow 
of  His  awful  exodus  had  already  fallen  upon  the 
little  group.  Behold  that  resolute  figure — the  wan 
face  lit  up  with  the  fire  of  an  invincible  resolve — 
going  in  front,  climbing  the  difficult  ascent.  The 
apostles  cannot  keep  step  with  His  eager  steps, 
and  they  fear  as  an  instinctive  dread  of  coming 
events  casts  its  chilling  mantle  around  them. 
There  was  something  in  their  Master  they  could 
not  understand. 

Such  moments  come  to  all  lives,  when  Jesus 
leads  us  to  the  cross.  How  often  He  asks  for  a 
deeper  consecration ;  a  more  complete  crossing  of 
natural  inclination  for  the  sake  of  His  Gospel; 
an  intenser  purpose.  At  His  bidding  we  must 
tear  ourselves  away  from  ambitions  which  had 
fascinated,  and  dreams  which  had  allured.  We 
must  no  longer  live  on  the  lower  level,  however 
pleasant  to  flesh  and  blood,  but  gird  ourselves  to 
go  up  to  Jerusalem. 

At  such  moments  He  always  goes  before  us. 
We  may  not  see  Him  until  we  begin  to  follow  in 
the  direction  of  His  voice ;  but  so  soon  as  we  set 
ourselves  to  obey,  we  become  aware  of  His  pre- 
venient  grace.  He  is  just  in  front.  He  never 
puts  forth  His  own  sheep  without  going  before 
them.  He  never  asks  us  to  tread  a  path  which 
has  not  been  trodden  by  His  footsteps.  Happy 
are  they  who  follow  Him  ! 

In  the  first  effort  to  follow  Jesus,  there  may  be 
amazement  and  not  a  little  fear.  The  unaccus- 
tomed path,  the  strange  look  on  His  face,  the 
shadow  of  the  cross — all  dissuade  us.  But  as 
He  dilates  on  the  joy  set  before  Him  and  us,  we 
learn  to  think  lightly  of  the  difficulties  in  com- 
parison with  the  goal. 

38 


Jesus  answering  saith  unto  them.  Have  faith  in 
God.  Mark  xt.  22. 

THE  margin  of  the  a.  v.  suggests  that  this  com- 
mand might  be  rendered,  Have  the  faith  of  God. 
As  long  as  I  Uve  I  shall  remember  this  text  in 
connection  with  my  first  meeting  with  Hudson 
Taylor.  He  was  to  preach  for  me  on  a  Sunday 
morning,  now  years  ago,  and  gave  out  this  as  his 
text.  But  he  said  that  he  had  always  interpreted 
it  as  dealing  rather  with  God's  faith  to  us  than 
ours  to  Him ;  so  that  it  ran  thus :  Reckon  on  God's 
faithfulness. 

1.  We  must  be  sure  that  we  are  on  God's 
plan. — There  is  a  prepared  path  for  us,  along 
which  God  has  stored  up  all  necessary  supplies. 
But  if  we  want  those  supplies,  we  must  find  and 
follow  it.  Along  the  track  which  He  has  marked 
out  between  this  and  Home,  our  Father  has  erected 
cairns  full  of  provisions ;  but  we  must  let  His  route 
prevail  over  our  own  notions  and  wishes,  if  we  are 
to  enjoy  His  preparations. 

2.  We  must  be  prepared  to  wait  on  Him. — 
For  these  things  He  will  be  inquired  of.  Though 
He  knows  what  we  need.  He  expects  our  humble 
request,  that  we  may  be  perpetually  reminded  of 
our  entire  dependence  on  Him.  He  sometimes 
appears  to  tarry  to  draw  out  our  faith  and  prayer. 
But  He  will  never  utterly  fail. 

3.  We  must  walk  worthily  of  Him. — God 
shows  Himself  strong  only  on  behalf  of  those 
whose  heart  is  perfect  toward  Him.  By  His  en- 
abling grace  we  must  put  away  the  old  manner 
of  life,  and  be  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  our  mind, 
that  we  may  be  such  whom  the  great  God  shall 
delight  to  honor.  Let  such  trust  Him  to  the  hilt ; 
they  will  find  Him  faithful.  He  will  never  put 
us  into  positions  of  peril  and  responsibility,  and 
leave  us  to  take  our  chance. 


He  is  not  the  God  of  the  dead,  but  the  God  of  the 
living.  Mark  xii.  27. 

SINCE  God  spoke  of  Himself  as  the  God  of 
the  patriarchs,  centuries  after  they  had  been  borne 
to  their  graves,  it  stood  to  reason  that  they  were 
yet  Hving ;  and  on  this  ground  our  Lord  met  the 
allegation  that  there  is  no  life  beyond  death. 

Death  is  not  a  state  or  conditiofi,  but  an  act. — 
We  speak  of  the  dead ;  but  in  point  of  fact  there 
are  none  such.  We  should  speak  of  those  who 
have  died.  They  were  living  up  to  the  moment 
of  death ;  but  they  were  living  quite  as  much 
afterward.  Death  is  like  birth,  an  act,  a  transi- 
tion, a  passage  into  a  freer  life.  Never  think 
of  a  death  as  a  state,  but  as  resembling  a  bridge 
which,  for  a  moment,  casts  its  shadow  on  the 
express  train,  which  flashes  beneath,  but  does  not 
stay. 

All  our  dear  ones  are  living. — As  vividly,  as 
keenly,  as  intensely  as  ever :  with  all  the  love  and 
faith  and  intelligence  with  which  we  were  wont  to 
associate  their  beloved  personality.  It  may  be 
that  they  think  of  us  as  only  half  alive,  compared 
with  their  own  intense  and  vivid  experience  of  the 
life  which  draws  its  breath  from  the  manifested 
presence  of  God.  Oh,  do  not  fear  that  they  will 
cease  to  recognize,  know,  or  love  you  !  Always 
it  remains  true,  "  Without  us  they  cannot  be  made 
perfect." 

Those  who  live  on  either  side  of  death  may  meet 
in  God. — Those  who  are  present  in  the  body,  and 
those  who  are  absent  from  it,  meet  in  proportion 
as  they  approach  God.  When  we  come  near  Him 
in  thought,  and  prayer,  and  love,  we  are  come  to 
the  spirits  of  the  just  made  perfect.  God  is  the 
glorious  centre  of  all  the  lines  that  radiate  into 
all  worlds^  "Ye  are  come  to  God,  the  Judge 
of  all,  .  .  .  and  to  the  spirits  of  the  just  made 
perfect." 

40 


Ye  know  not  when  the  lord  of  the  house  cometh. 

Mark  xiii,  3^  (R.  v.). 

NO,  we  know  not.  It  is  better  that  we  should 
not  know.  But  He  must  be  very  near.  Even  has 
passed ;  the  beams  of  His  presence  had  just  died 
off  the  world,  and  the  after-glow  was  still  lingering 
in  the  ministry  of  the  apostles  in  the  early  Church. 
Midnight  has  passed ;  it  reached  its  deepest  dark- 
ness in  the  middle  ages,  when  only  a  few  holy 
souls  shone  like  stars  in  the  surrounding  gloom. 
Cock-crow  has  passed;  Wickliffe  and  Luther, 
and  others,  heralded  the  morning.  And  now  the 
mornitig  is  upon  us ;  nay,  it  is  shining  more  and 
more  unto  the  perfect  day.  He  must  be  near, 
even  at  the  doors.  Be  ready,  O  virgin  souls,  to 
go  forth  to  meet  Him  ! 

But  may  not  these  words  be  interpreted  in  yet 
another  way  ?  Jesus  comes  to  us  in  the  evening 
twilight,  when  the  joy  of  our  life  seems  slowly 
waning.  He  comes  to  us  in  the  deep  night  of  de- 
pression, bereavement,  and  anguish.  He  comes 
to  us  in  the  hope  and  expectancy  of  each  new 
dawn,  when  we  gird  ourselves  to  fresh  toils  and 
endeavors.  He  comes  to  us  in  the  morning,  and 
satisfies  us  with  His  mercy,  that  we  may  rejoice 
and  be  glad  all  the  day.  Only  let  us  watch  for 
His  coming,  with  ears  attent  to  His  lightest  foot- 
fall. His  softest  whisper.  Then,  when  He  shows 
Himself  through  the  lattice,  or  softly  whispers, 
**Come  away,"  we  shall  arise  and  go  forth  with 
Him  to  the  beds  of  lilies  and  the  gardens  of 
myrrh. 

Are  we  quite  sure  that  we  belong  to  His  house  ? 
*' Whose  house  are  we,"  says  the  writer  of  the 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews.  But  there  are  condi- 
tions :  we  must  be  born  into  it  by  regeneration ; 
we  must  walk  as  becometh  saints ;  we  must  hold 
the  beginning  of  our  confidence  steadfast  to  the 
end.  Christ  is  Lord  over  this  house,  and  His 
will  is  law  (Heb.  iii.  1-9). 
41 


But  Jesus  said,  Let  her  alone. 

Mark  xiv.  6. 

THE  lovers  of  Jesus  are  often  misunderstood. 
Those  who  judge  only  by  a  utilitarian  standard 
refuse  to  acknowledge  the  worth  of  their  deeds. 
You  might  as  well  despise  the  electric  light  be- 
cause it  makes  no  register  on  a  gas-meter.  But 
when  the  voices  of  criticism  and  jealousy  are 
highest,  Jesus  steps  in  and  casts  the  shield  of  His 
love  around  the  trembling,  disconcerted  soul,  say- 
ing. Let  him  alone.     So  He  speaks  still : — 

To  Satan. — The  adversary  stands  near  to  resist 
and  tempt.  As  Judas  criticised  Mary,  so  the  Evil 
One  seems  at  times  to  pour  a  perpetual  stream  of 
chilling  criticism  on  all  we  say  and  do;  or  he 
meets  us  at  every  turn  with  some  evil  suggestion. 
But  Jesus  is  on  the  watch,  and  He  will  not  allow 
us  to  be  tempted  beyond  what  we  are  able  to 
bear ;  but  when  heart  and  flesh  fail,  He  will  step 
in  and  say,  Let  him  (or  her)  alone. 

To  sorrow. — We  must  pass  through  the  fire, 
and  be  subjected  to  the  lapidary's  wheel;  we 
must  drink  of  His  cup,  and  be  baptized  with 
His  baptism ;  we  must  bear  our  cross  after  Him. 
But  He  is  always  on  the  alert.  And  whenever 
the  feeble  flesh  is  at  an  end  of  its  power  of  en- 
durance, He  will  step  in  and  say.  Let  be — it  is 
enough. 

To  human  unkindness. — Some  of  us  are  called 
to  sufl"er  most  from  our  fellows ;  our  foes  belong 
to  our  own  household  ;  our  brother  Cain  hates  us. 
It  is  hard  to  bear.  To  have  one's  motives  mis- 
understood and  maligned ;  to  lose  one's  good 
name;  to  be  an  outcast — all  this  is  hard.  But 
God  has  planted  a  hedge  about  us,  and  none 
may  pass  through  it,  except  He  permit.  Even 
Satan  recognizes  this,  as  we  learn  from  the  Book 
of  Job. 

42 


My  God,  My  God,  why  hast  Thou  forsaken  Me  ? 

Mark  XV.  34. 

THIS  was  the  darkest  hour  of  the  Saviour's 
human  life.  Lover  and  friend  stood  away  from 
Him ;  and  those  for  whom  His  blood  was  being 
shed  covered  Him  with  contumely  and  abuse. 
Let  us  consider : 

His  quotation  of  Scripture. — He  is  quoting  the 
first  verse  of  Psalm  xxii.,  which  is  truly  known  as 
the  Psalm  of  the  Cross.  It  may  be  that  He  re- 
cited to  Himself  that  wonderful  elegy,  in  which 
David  was  to  anticipate  so  minutely  the  sufferings 
of  his  Lord.  What  meaning  there  was  for  those 
dying  lips  in  the  7th  verse  :  ''All  they  that  see  Me 
laugh  Me  to  scorn  "  ;  in  the  13th  :  ''  They  gape 
upon  Me  "  ;  in  the  14th  :  "  All  My  bones  are  out 
of  joint";  in  the  17th:  ''I  may  tell  all  My 
bones";  or  in  the  i8th:  ''They  part  My  gar- 
ments and  cast  lots."  What  sacred  feet  trod 
those  well-worn  steps  ! 

His  vicarious  sufferings. — There  is  no  possible 
way  of  understanding,  or  interpreting,  these 
words,  except  by  believing  that  He  was  suffering 
for  sins  not  His  own ;  that  He  was  being  made 
sin  for  us ;  that  He  was  bearing  away  the  sin  of 
the  world.  It  is  not  for  a  moment  conceivable 
that  the  Father  could  have  ever  seemed  to  forsake 
His  well-beloved  Son,  unless  He  had  stood  as  the 
Representative  of  a  guilty  race,  and  during  those 
hours  of  midday  midnight  had  become  the  pro- 
pitiation for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

His  perfect  example  of  the  way  of  Faith. — In 
doing  the  Father's  will.  He  yielded  up  His  life 
even  to  the  death  of  the  cross.  But  amid  it  all 
He  said,  ''My  God,  My  God."  He  still  held 
to  the  Father  with  His  two  hands.  And  His 
faith  conquered.  The  clouds  broke;  the  clear 
lieaven  appeared  ;  He  died  with  a  serene  faith. 
"My  God"  was  exchanged  for  "  Father,  into 
Thy  hands." 

43 


The  Lord  working  with  them. 

Mark  xvi.  20. 

THIS  was  the  secret  of  the  successes  of  the 
early  Church.  Theirs  was  the  simple  commission 
to  preach ;  but  wherever  they  did  so,  the  Lord 
confirmed  their  word  with  signs  following.  In 
Jerusalem,  Samaria,  Antioch,  Rome,  and  to  the 
uttermost  end  of  the  world,  wherever  these  simple 
men  stood  up  and  made  their  proclamation,  their 
invisible  Lord  was  present,  and  His  Spirit  bore 
witness. 

Nothing  less  than  this  will  account  for  the  mar- 
vellous successes  of  those  early  preachers.  He 
who  sat  at  the  right  hand  of  God  in  the  attitude 
of  majestic  rest  was  always  beside  them  in  the 
intensity  of  the  most  untiring  work.  What  was 
done  by  them  on  earth  was  wrought  by  Himself. 
His  right  hand  and  His  holy  arm  got  Him  the 
victory. 

This  blessed  partnership  has  never  been  re- 
pealed. Jesus  has  never  withdrawn  from  the 
compact ;  and  if  we  could  only  dare  to  count  and 
reckon  on  Him,  we  would  find  that  He  was  co- 
operating in  church,  and  Sunday-school,  and 
mission-station.  There  are  a  few  rules  to  be  ob- 
served, however,  before  we  can  count  upon  Him 
thus  :  (i)  We  must  be  clean  in  heart  and  life. 
He  cannot  identify  Himself  with  those  who 
are  consciously  delinquent.  (2)  We  must  not 
seek  our  own  glory,  but  God's,  and  the  pure 
blessing  of  men.  (3)  We  must  use  the  Word  of 
God  as  our  sword,  our  lever,  our  balm,  our  cor- 
dial, our  charm.  (4)  We  must  be  in  loving 
harmony  with  those  who  name  His  name,  as  He 
cannot  countenance  seclusion  or  uncharitable 
feeling.  (5)  We  must  by  faith  claim  and  reckon 
upon  Him — speaking  to  Him  as  to  the  message 
before  it  is  delivered,  relying  on  Him  during  its 
delivery,  and  conferring  with  Him  about  its  effect. 
Not  anxious  or  elated,  but  at  rest. 
44 


Behold  the  handmaid  of  the  Lord :  be  it  unto  me 
according  to  Thy  word.  Luke  i.  j8. 

THE  angel's  message  meant,  for  this  young, 
pure-hearted  girl,  a  great  deal  of  misunderstand- 
ing and  reproach.  It  was  inevitable  that  clouds 
would  gather  around  her  character,  which  would 
sorely  perplex  the  good  man  to  whom  she  was 
betrothed.  But  as  soon  as  she  realized  that  this 
lot  was  ordained  for  her  by  God  she  humbly  ac- 
quiesced, with  these  model  words  of  patient  faith. 
Let  ns  often  say  them : 

First :  To  His  cofnmands. — God's  voice  often 
speaks  within  our  hearts,  and  no  word  of  His  is 
devoid  of  power.  We  must  test  what  seems  to  be 
His  voice  by  these  three  corroborations  :  First, 
His  Word ;  second,  by  the  trend  of  outward  cir- 
cumstances; third,  by  the  advice  of  Christian 
people  not  immediately  interested.  When  these 
concur,  we  may  take  it  that  God  has  spoken  to 
us,  and  whatever  the  burden  of  His  words  we 
must  respond — Be  it  unto  me  according  to  Thy 
word. 

Secondly  :  To  the  responsibilities  thrust  on  us. 
— It  may  be  a  trusteeship  for  some  dying  friend ; 
a  charge  of  orphan  children  ;  a  babe  cast  on  our 
parentage ;  an  invalid ;  a  difficult  and  trying 
piece  of  Christian  enterprise.  But  whenever  it 
comes  on  us,  imposed  by  the  evident  appointment 
of  our  Father,  notwithstanding  the  shrinking  of 
our  flesh  and  the  fearfulness  of  our  soul,  we  must 
say :     Be  it  unto  me  according  to  Thy  word. 

Thirdly  :  To  any  burden  of  pain  and  suffer- 
ing.— Are  you  one  whom  God  has  set  apart  to 
manifest  the  power  of  His  grace  in  suffering  and 
pain  ?  Are  you  sleepless  by  night,  and  helpless 
by  day?  Are  you  likely  to  spend  years  in  one 
position,  as  paralyzed  or  rheumatic  ?  Well,  still 
dare  to  look  up  and  say  :  Be  it  unto  me  according 
to  Thy  word. 

45 


Glory  to  God  in  the  highest^  and  on  earth  peace. 

Luke  a.  i^. 

THESE  twain  are  joined  together,  and  none 
can  sunder  them.  Do  you  want  peace  ?  Your 
highest  aim  must  be  the  glory  of  God.  Do  you 
seek  God's  glory  as  your  highest  aim?  then,  the 
inevitable  result  will  be  the  peace  that  passeth 
understanding. 

Glory  to  God  in  the  highest. — It  was  said  of  the 
soldiers  of  the  first  Napoleon  that  they  were  con- 
tent to  die  in  the  ditch  if  only  he  rode  over  them 
to  victory.  With  their  last  breath  they  cried, 
"  Long  live  the  Emperor  !  "  It  seemed  as  though 
they  had  lost  all  thought  and  care  of  their  own 
interests  so  long  as  glory  accrued  to  his  name. 
So  should  it  be  of  us.  Higher  than  our  own 
comfort,  or  success,  or  popularity,  should  be  the 
one  thought  of  the  glory  of  our  God.  Let  Christ 
be  honored,  loved,  exalted,  at  whatever  cost  to 
us. 

On  earth,  peace. — It  will  come,  because  when 
the  heart  has  only  one  aim  to  follow,  it  is  deliv- 
ered from  dividing  and  distracting  cares.  It  will 
come,  because  the  glory  of  God  is  so  lofty  an 
aim  that  it  lifts  the  soul  into  the  atmosphere  of 
the  heavenly  and  eternal  world,  where  peace 
reigns  unbroken.  It  will  come,  because  we  are  not 
greatly  troubled  by  the  reverses  and  alternations 
of  fortune  that  are  incident  to  all  work  in  this 
world,  since  the  main  object  is  always  secure  and 
beyond  fear  of  failure.  What  though  there  be 
the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  wave,  yet  the  tide  is  cer- 
tainly coming  up  the  shore,  and  will  presently 
stand  at  high- water  mark. 

This  peace  is  said  in  the  R.  v.  to  come  only  to 
men  in  whom  God  is  well  pleased.  Live  to  please 
God,  and  He  will  breathe  on  thee  His  peace. 
Seek  His  glory,  and  He  will  make  thy  heart  His 
home.  Do  His  will,  and  thereby  good  shall  come 
to  thee. 

46 


He  shall  baptize  you  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
with  fire.  Luke  Hi.  ib. 

THEY  had  received  the  negative,  water  ;  they 
were  to  receive  the  positive,  fire.  Water  is  not 
sufficient  for  natures  such  as  ours.  The  Baptist 
pointed  to  a  greater  Baptist  than  himself.  Jesus 
plunges  the  soul  into  a  baptism  of  fire. 

Fire  cleanses. — Ore  may  be  mingled  with 
earthly  ingredients  from  which  it  is  imperative 
to  free  it.  A  chisel  or  pickaxe  could  not  extricate 
it.  But  when  it  is  plunged  into  the  furnace,  the 
metal  runs  out  in  a  molten  stream.  So  our  char- 
acters are  full  of  impurities  and  earthly  ingredi- 
ents ;  but  as  they  are  brought  into  contact  with 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  these  are  eliminated 
and  drop  away,  and  we  attain  degrees  of  purity 
and  love  which  otherwise  had  made  us  unservice- 
able to  our  dear  Lord.  Do  not  seek  to  rid  your- 
self of  these  things  as  a  condition  of  His  gracious 
cleansing,  but  seek  the  baptism  of  the  Spirit,  and 
He  will  free  thee;  for  He  is  like  a  consuming 
fire. 

Fire  illuminates. — As  the  express-train  hurries 
the  traveller  by  night  through  a  district  where  the 
smelting  furnaces  are  in  full  blast,  his  eyes  are  ar- 
rested by  their  glow,  and  the  very  heavens  are 
lurid  with  the  light,  reflected  for  miles.  So  when 
the  Spirit  comes  in  power  to  the  soul.  He  teaches 
us  to  know  God,  and  truth,  and  things  hidden 
from  the  wise  and  prudent.  The  fires  that  sanc- 
tify, illuminate  us. 

Fire  enkindles. — It  is  contagious.  It  will  spread 
over  an  immense  area,  where  inflammable  material 
attracts  it.  A  match  may  light  up  a  bonfire  that 
will  burn  for  hours.  So  when  the  Spirit  of  God 
touches  a  soul,  like  an  unlit  candle,  it  begins  to 
glow;  and  from  it  the  blessed  spark  may  pass 
from  heart  to  heart,  and  church  to  church,  till  an 
entire  continent  may  blaze  with  heavenly  fire. 
47 


The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  Me,  because  He 
anointed  Me.  Luke  iv.  i8. 

AS  the  Lord  emerged  from  the  waters  of  bap- 
tism, the  heavens  were  opened,  and  the  Spirit  in 
a  bodily  shape  descended  upon  Him  and  abode. 
Then  His  mouth  was  opened,  and  His  pubhc 
ministry  commenced.  Now  He  stepped  forth  into 
the  world,  saying : 

«'  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  upon  Me, 
Because  He  anointed  Me  to  preach  good  tidings  to  the 

poor: 
He  hath  sent  Me  to  proclaim  release  to  the  captives, 
And  recovering  of  sight  to  the  blind, 
To  set  at  liberty  them  that  are  bruised. 
To  proclaim  the  acceptable  year  of  the  Lord." 

The  Spirit  was  given  Him  without  measure,  as 
the  power  in  which  He  was  to  cast  out  devils, 
preach  the  Gospel,  and  glorify  His  Father  by  His 
human  life  and  ministry. 

What  that  scene  was  in  the  life  of  the  Lord, 
Pentecost  was  for  the  Church.  Then  she  was 
anointed  for  her  Divine  mission  among  men ;  the 
unction  of  the  Holy  One  rested  upon  her,  to  be 
continued  and  renewed  as  the  centuries  slowly 
passed.  What  happened  for  the  Church  should 
take  place  in  the  history  of  each  member  of  it. 
This  anointing  is  for  all,  is  to  be  received  by 
faith,  and  is  especially  intended  to  equip  us  for 
work.  Hast  thou  had  thy  share?  If  not,  art 
thou  not  making  a  mistake  in  attempting  God's 
work  without  it?  If  Jesus  did  not  put  His 
hand  to  this  work  till  He  was  conscious  of 
His  anointing,  though  He  was  one  with  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  an  especial  sense,  how  much  less 
should  we  !  Hast  thou  known  it  ?  Seek  it  on 
the  threshold  of  each  new  enterprise.  Be  satis- 
fied with  nothing  less  than  to  be  anointed  with 
fresh  oil. 

48 


He  stretched  forth  His  hand,  and  touched  him , 
saying,  I  will ;  be  thou  clean.  Luke  v.  jj. 

THIS  leper,  as  the  physician-evangelist  re- 
marks, was  full  of  leprosy.  It  was  a  very  ag- 
gravated case.  He  lay  in  the  dust  before  Jesus. 
What  a  contrast !  Loathsomeness  and  Divine 
beauty ;  disease  and  health ;  humanity  at  its 
worst  and  best ;  sinner  and  Saviour ;  one  of  Sa- 
tan's most  miserable  victims,  and  the  Almighty 
Deliverer.  So,  my  reader,  if  thou  art  conscious 
of  a  heart  and  life  which  are  full  of  sin,  I  would 
have  thee  meet  thy  Saviour  now.  There  is  no  if 
about  His  power — even  the  leper  recognized  that. 
The  only  doubt  was  about  the  Saviour's  will : 
there  is,  however,  no  doubt  on  this  score  now, 
since  He  has  healed  myriads,  and  promises  heal- 
ing to  all  who  come.  Throw  thyself,  then,  at  His 
feet,  and  ask  for  cleansing. 

*'He  stretched  forth  His  hand,  and  touched 
him."  No  one  else  would  have  dared  to  do  as 
much.  To  touch  that  flesh,  according  to  the 
Levitical  code,  would  induce  uncleanness.  But 
Jesus  shrank  not.  On  the  one  hand.  He  knew 
that  the  ceremonial  restrictions  were  abolished  in 
Himself :  on  the  other,  He  desired  to  teach  that  sin 
cannot  defile  the  Divine  holiness  of  the  Saviour. 
Whatever  be  the  stories  of  sin  that  are  breathed 
into  His  ear ;  whatever  the  open  bruises  and  pu- 
trefying sores  which  are  opened  to  His  touch ; 
whatever  the  sights  and  scenes  with  which  He 
has  to  cope — none  of  these  can  leave  a  taint  of 
evil  in  His  sinless  heart.  It  would  be  as  impossi- 
ble for  sin  to  soil  Christ  as  for  a  plague  to  con- 
taminate flame.  And  He  will  heal  thee.  Dare 
to  claim  it. 

"  Break  up  the  heavens,  O  Lord,  and  far 
Through  all  yon  starlight  keen 
Draw  me,  thy  bride — a  glittering  star, 
In  raiment  white  and  clean." 

49 


Every  one  when  he  is  perfected  shall  be  as  his 
Master.  Luke  vi.  40  (R.  v.). 

WE  are  not  perfected  yet. — There  is  a  great 
chasm  between  our  highest  and  our  Master's  low- 
est ;  between  where  we  stop  and  He  begins :  be- 
tween our  light,  which  is  twilight  at  best,  and  His 
meridian  glory.  When  we  compare  ourselves 
with  ourselves,  or  with  our  neighbors,  our  stand- 
ard is  altogether  too  low;  we  should  compare 
ourselves  with  Him,  the  beloved  Master.  Job, 
who  was  reputed  perfect,  abhorred  himself,  and 
repented  in  dust  and  ashes  when  he  had  seen 
God,  of  whom  he  had  formerly  only  heard. 

But  we  shall  be  perfected  one  day. — That  when 
has  a  hopeful  ring.  But  to  what  period  does  the 
Master  point?  Not  till  sorrow,  sanctified  by 
God's  grace,  has  done  its  work ;  not  till  the  snow 
and  frost,  the  light  shower  and  the  bitter  wind, 
the  earth  and  sun,  have  contributed  their  shares 
to  the  desired  quota.  Not  till  the  perfect  image 
of  Jesus  has  emerged  from  the  sculptured  stone ; 
not  till  the  molten  metal  reflects  each  lineament 
of  the  glorified  Lord. 

When  we  are  perfected  we  shall  be  as  our 
Master. — '■'■  We  shall  be  like  Him,  for  we  shall  see 
Him  as  He  is."  It  seems  altogether  too  much  to 
expect !  To  think  that  we  shall  be  changed  into 
His  image ;  that  we  shall  bear  His  impress ;  that 
we  shall  be  as  like  Him  as  Gideon's  brethren  to 
Gideon,  of  whom  the  princes  of  Midian  testified 
that  they  were  like  the  children  of  a  king.  Yet 
it  shall  be  so.  The  Lord  Jesus  became  like  unto 
us  in  our  low  estate,  that  we  should  become  like 
Him  in  His  glory.  There  must  ever  be  the  limi- 
tation of  the  creature  as  compared  with  Him  by 
whom  all  things  were  made.  But  in  our  measure 
there  shall  be  the  same  perfect  beauty — His  beauty 
upon  us — for  a  mountain  lake  may  as  perfectly  re- 
flect the  wide  blue  heaven  as  an  ocean. 
50 


W7ien  the  Lord  saw  her,  He  had  compassion  on 
her,  and  said  unto  her.   Weep  not.     Luke  vii.  13. 

NO  widow  stands  by  the  bier  of  her  only  son, 
no  mother  by  the  empty  cot  of  her  babe,  no  lover 
beside  the  fading  beauty  of  his  beloved — but  the 
Son  of  Man,  unseen  but  glorious,  is  at  hand,  see- 
ing, understanding,  touched  with  compassion,  and 
saying,  in  His  tenderest  tones,  Weep  not ! 

Weep  not :  Love  is  eternal. — Hast  thou  forgot- 
ten that  there  are  three  things  which  abide  for- 
evermore,  the  greatest  of  which  is  love?  Is  it 
likely  that  those  blessed  ties  which  have  woven  us 
to  others  can  be  snapped  by  death,  which  can 
only  touch  the  body,  but  is  not  able  to  reach  the 
soul  ?  Is  not  love  of  God — and  can  God's  love 
change,  and  pass  away?  No;  though  severed 
from  your  sight,  the  dear  ones  that  are  gone  are 
thine  to-day,  and  have  not  forgotten,  but  love 
thee  still.  Without  us  they  cannot  be  made  per- 
fect. 

Weep  not :  recognition  of  the  beloved  dead  is 
certain. — Did  not  Mary  and  the  women,  Peter 
and  five  hundred  more,  recognize  Jesus  after  His 
resurrection?  Is  He  not  the  same  Man?  Are 
we  not  to  be  like  Him  ?  Recognition  went  so  far, 
in  His  case,  that  the  Magdalene  recognized  the 
very  tones  of  His  voice,  when  He  said  Mary,  and 
she  answered  Rahboni.  Yes,  though  refined  and 
purified,  the  face  thou  hast  loved  shall  smile,  and 
the  tones  that  have  made  thy  heart-music  shall 
speak  again.     Weep  not ! 

Weep  not :  they  shall  rise  again,  nevermore  to 
be  separated. — The  Lord  raised  this  youth  to  life ; 
but  there  had  to  be  another  parting,  when  his 
mother  or  he  died.  But  when  thy  dear  ones  are 
reunited  to  thee,  there  will  be  no  more  partings. 
There  shall  be  no  more  sea.  Thy  heart  shall  find 
its  mate.  Thou  and  he  shall  go  no  more  out. 
51 


But  Jesus  said,  Some  one  did  touch  Me. 

Luke  via.  46  (R.  v.). 

AMID  the  pressure  of  the  crowd  that  crushed 
on  Him  from  all  sides,  Jesus  detected  the  light 
touch  of  one  thin  hand,  which  drew  from  Him 
healing  virtue.  We  may  be  very  near  Christ,  and 
throng  Him,  without  touching ;  but  no  one  can 
touch  Him,  however  lightly,  without  deriving  the 
very  grace  needed. 

We  think  of  Jesus  to-day  amid  the  thronging 
crowds  of  angels  and  spirits  of  the  just  made  per- 
fect. Amid  their  voices  will  ours  be  heard  ? 
Amid  the  pressure  of  their  attendance  on  His  sa- 
cred person  will  He  stay  to  recognize  our  poor 
trembling  touch?  Amid  the  vast  interests  that 
depend  on  Him,  the  government  of  the  universe, 
the  holding  together  and  consistence  of  all  things, 
is  there  any  likelihood  of  our  need  asserting  itself 
successfully?  See,  He  is  hastening  on  to  raise 
the  dead ;  there  is  the  daughter  of  many  a  Jairus 
waiting  for  His  summons,  in  the  cemeteries  and 
sleeping  places  of  the  dead.  Will  He  stay  for 
me?     Yes,  always. 

There  is  the  touch  of  prayer  and  faith.  Thou 
canst  never  exercise  it,  however  simply,  without 
eliciting  an  immediate  response.  The  conductor 
can  detect  the  tiny  note  of  a  piccolo  in  an  orches- 
tra ;  and  Christ  is  moved  by  a  whisper,  a  sigh,  a 
tear,  a  touch.  There  may  be  a  good  deal  of  mis- 
take and  superstition,  as  there  was  in  this  woman, 
who  seemed  to  have  thought  that  virtue  clung  to 
His  robes;  but  He  will  distinguish  the  soul  of 
holy  trust  amid  many  false  ingredients.  There  is 
also  the  touch  of  affection.  He  knew  when  the 
woman  crept  to  kiss  His  feet.  He  did  not  in- 
stantly speak  of  it,  but  said  afterward,  ''From 
the  time  I  came  in  she  hath  not  ceased  to  kiss  My 
feet."  Not  one  loving  expression  from  thy  heart 
to  His  is  lost  on  Him  ! 

52 


Behold,  there  talked  with  Him  two  me?!,  which 
were  Moses  and  Elijah.  Luke  ix.  31. 

WHAT  a  spectacle  was  this,  on  the  slopes  of 
Lebanon,  with  light  transcending  that  of  the 
moonlight  shining  in  the  upper  heights  !  And 
what  converse  !  Possibly  that  transfiguration  was 
an  example  of  the  way  in  which  Adam  and  all  his 
race  might  have  passed  into  heaven,  had  not  death 
come  on  us  all  through  sin  ;  and  therefore  it  was 
the  greater  proof  of  the  love  of  our  dear  Lord, 
when  He  deliberately  turned  from  all  the  radiant 
light  and  took  the  way  of  the  cross.  His  death 
is  here  called  an  exodus  :  such  is  the  Greek  word 
rendered  decease.  How  much  these  two  great 
souls,  Moses  and  Elijah,  had  to  say  about  it :  the 
one  representing  the  law;  the  other  the  proph- 
ets. 

Moses  would  remind  Him  of  the  lamb  that 
would  be  slain  before  the  children  of  Israel  could 
escape  from  Egypt;  of  the  rock  that  must  be 
smitten,  before  the  water  could  flow  forth  for  the 
thirsty  crowds ;  of  the  serpent  that  must  be  fixed 
on  the  pole,  before  the  dying  Israelites  could  look 
and  live. 

Elijah  would  remind  the  Lord  of  Psalm  xxii., 
beginning  with  a  wail  and  ending  with  praise ;  of 
Isaiah  liii.,  finishing  with  a  burst  of  triumph ;  and 
many  another  sacred  and  familiar  passage. 

And  after  all  it  was  only  an  exodus,  the  going 
forth  of  His  spirit  from  the  Time-sphere  to  the 
Eternal ;  from  contact  with  a  very  weary  world  to 
victory  and  joy-mending.  Lighted  by  the  She- 
chinah  glory ;  following  through  the  Red  Sea  of 
Blood ;  hastening  to  the  morning,  with  its  vision 
of  enemies  strewn  dead  on  the  seashore.  The 
memory  of  this  talk  so  far  robbed  death  of  its 
terror,  in  the  heart  of  one  of  the  disciples  at 
least,  that  afterward  he  described  his  own  death 
as  an  exodus  (2  Peter  i.  15). 
53 


I  beheld  Satan  fallen  as  lightning  from  heaven. 

Luke  X.  i8  (R.  v.). 

THIS  was  Christ's  vision  of  the  effect  of  His 
work  in  man's  nature,  and  on  man's  behalf.  For 
ages  Satan  had  vaunted  his  power  over  man ;  but 
now  and  henceforward  the  demon -nature  was  to 
be  vanquished  by  the  name  and  nature  of  Jesus 
Christ.  ''The  demons  are  subject  to  us  in  Thy 
name."  Whenever  you  are  tempted  by  the  de- 
mon of  alcohol,  of  passion,  of  jealousy,  or  any 
other,  claim  instantly  the  protection  of  the  Name 
which  is  above  every  name  :  make  the  Name  and 
Nature  of  Jesus  your  strong  tower  into  which  you 
shall  run  and  be  safe :  realize  all  that  He  stands 
for :  and  you  will  find  that  the  demons  will  be 
subject  to  you.  In  your  life  also,  Satan  will  fall 
from  heaven,  and  be  trodden  under  your  feet. 

And  what  is  true  in  your  own  life  is  true  also 
of  your  influence  over  others.  If  you  dare  to  live 
in  the  risen  Christ,  you  share  His  empire  and  all 
the  fruits  of  His  victory  over  Satan.  He  gives 
you  authority  over  serpents  and  scorpions,  and 
over  all  the  power  of  the  enemy.  The  Christ  na- 
ture within  you  becomes  the  dominant,  triumph- 
ant power  to  which  all  power  must  ultimately 
yield.  Dare  to  use  it.  In  conflict  with  the  de- 
mon spirits  that  haunt  so  many  lives ;  in  antag- 
onizing the  giant  forces  that  are  so  strongly  en- 
trenched in  our  natural  life,  the  ravages  of  vice — 
be  sure  to  rely,  not  on  numbers  or  organization, 
but  on  the  name  of  Jesus,  used  not  as  a  charm, 
but  as  representing  His  living  and  ascended 
might. 

And  let  it  be  carefully  noted  that  as  the  success 
of  these  disciples  over  a  few  demons  in  the  vil- 
lages and  towns  of  Israel  reacted  on  the  balance 
of  power  in  the  heavenlies,  so  there  is  no  victory 
won  anywhere  by  any  lonely  disciple,  or  handful 
of  disciples,  that  does  not  react  on  the  entire  bat- 
tlefield. 

54 


Lord^  teach  us  to  pray. 

Luke  xi.  J. 

IT  was  a  wise  and  good  request,  prompted  by 
the  Saviour's  own  practice.  He  did  not,  in  the 
first  instance,  command  His  disciples  to  pray; 
but  He  gave  Himself  to  the  blessed  practice  of 
prayer,  and  this  made  them  eager  to  learn  and 
practice  the  holy  art.  This  is  the  best  way  of 
inculcating  new  and  holy  habits  on  those  who 
surround  us.  Do  not  begin  by  exhorting  them  ; 
but  by  living  before  them  a  life  so  holy,  so  un- 
selfish, so  consecrated  and  devout,  that  they  shall 
spontaneously  approach  you,  saying,  ^'Give  us 
your  secret ;  tell  us  how  we  may  do  and  become 
as  you."  It  is  a  holy  life  which  constitutes  our 
best  pulpit. 

We  should  daily  ask  the  Master  to  teach  us  to 
pray.  Each  time  we  kneel  in  prayer  we  may 
well  preface  our  petitions  with  the  sentence : 
**We  know  not  what  we  should  pray  for  as  we 
ought ;  but  by  Thy  Holy  Spirit,  Lord,  teach  us  to 
pray."  And  probably  the  Lord's  answer  will  fall 
into  suggestions,  borrowed  from  the  form  and 
model  of  prayer  which  He  gave  His  disciples.  It 
has  been  called  the  Lord's  Prayer;  it  should  be 
called  the  Disciples'. 

Address  prayer  to  the  Father,  through  the  Son. 
Do  not  be  selfish  in  prayer ;  but  look  out  on  the 
needs  of  others,  incorporating  them  in  every  pe- 
tition— us,  we,  our.  Remember,  you  are  speak- 
ing to  your  Father,  and  that  His  honor  and  glory 
should  have  a  paramount  and  foremost  place.  If 
you  desire  first  the  hallowing  of  His  name,  and 
the  coming  of  His  kingdom,  all  your  personal 
needs  and  desires  will  fall  easily  and  naturally 
into  their  place,  which  will  be  a  comparatively 
subordinate  one.  You  will  need  forgiveness  as 
often  and  as  regularly  as  your  daily  bread.  Be, 
also,  direct  and  definite  in  prayer. 
55 


Be  not  anxious. 

Luke  xii.  ii  (R.  v.). 

SO  often  through  this  discourse  the  Lord  refers 
to  anxiety.  <'Be  not  anxious  how  or  what  ye 
shall  answer"  (ver.  ii).  ''Which  of  you  by 
being  anxious  can  add  ?  "  (ver.  25).  "Why  are 
ye  anxious?"  (ver.  26).  There  must  have  been 
a  great  strain  on  the  crowds  who  listened  to  Him ; 
and  there  was  every  likelihood  of  the  strain  be- 
coming even  greater  for  His  disciples  as  the  years 
passed  on.  So,  also,  the  characteristic  of  our  age 
is  anxious  strain. 

But  the  heart  of  Jesus  was  always  at  peace. 
His  life  was  calm  amid  the  storms  of  life ;  as  the 
coral-island,  with  its  fronded  palms  and  lagoons 
of  still  water,  is  peaceful  amid  the  storm-tossed 
ocean,  because  of  the  protection  of  its  reef.  The 
surf  breaks  there,  but  does  not  intrude  further. 
The  secrets  of  Jesus  were  the  perpetual  presence 
of  God  in  His  soul,  and  His  never-faltering  faith 
in  the  loving,  careful  providence  of  God  in  all  the 
experiences  of  His  checkered  life. 

Can  we  not  have  this?  We  may  if  we  are 
willing  to  pay  the  price.  If  we  will  resign  or  sur- 
render our  will  utterly  to  Him ;  if  we  will  tear 
down  every  vail  that  might  hide  His  face,  and 
throw  open  our  whole  being  to  His  indwelling  and 
use ;  if  we  will  cease  scheming,  planning,  devis- 
ing, and  fall  back  on  the  absolute  care  and  ar- 
rangements of  God ;  if  we  will  learn  to  reckon 
on  God  as  absolutely  as  on  any  resourceful  human 
friend  ;  if  we  will  dare  to  believe  that  God  holds 
Himself  reponsible  for  the  sustenance  and  equip- 
ment for  duty  of  all  who  absolutely  seek  His 
glory — then. 

"  Our  lives  shall  be  full  of  sunshine, 
And  the  cares  that  infest  the  day 
Shall  fold  up  their  tents  like  the  Arabs, 
And  as  silently  steal  away." 

56 


Etiter  in  by  the  riarrow  door. 

Luke  xiii.  24.  (r.  v.). 

THE  question  which  the  disciples  asked  was 
for  their  gratification  and  curiosity.  Men  have 
always  been  curious  to  know  what  will  be  the  nu- 
merical result  of  the  Redeemer's  work.  But  to 
such  questions  the  Lord  had  no  reply.  He  was 
only  eager  that  none  of  those  whom  He  loved 
should  miss  the  full  measure  of  blessedness  that 
was  within  His  reach;  therefore  He  bade  each 
be  sure  of  entering  the  narrow  door,  so  narrow 
that  there  is  no  room  to  carry  through  it  the  love 
of  self,  the  greed  of  gain,  the  thirst  for  the  ap- 
plause and  rewards  of  the  world. 

We  may  be  saved  from  the  penalty  of  sin  by 
one  single  glance  at  the  Saviour,  who  lived,  and 
died,  and  lives  forevermore;  but  we  cannot  be 
saved  in  the  deepest  meaning  of  the  word,  in  the 
sense  of  being  delivered  from  the  love  and  power 
of  sin,  unless  we  are  willing  to  enter  through  a 
door,  so  constructed  and  straight,  that  it  seems 
impossible  to  effect  an  entrance.  Art  thou  willing 
for  this,  willing  to  leave  behind  thy  amassed  and 
hardly-gained  treasures,  thy  luggage  and  impedi- 
menta, thy  jewels  and  gew-gaws,  thy  certificate 
of  merit  and  credentials,  thy  notions  of  self-im- 
portance, the  weights  which  thou  hast  carried  so 
long,  the  pillows  with  which  thou  art  always  spar- 
ing thyself  from  the  stern  realities  and  efforts  of  a 
noble  life  ?  If  thou  art  willing  for  this,  and  pre- 
pared to  strive,  even  to  the  rending  of  thyself 
asunder,  then  thou  shalt  be  saved  from  the  love 
and  tyranny  of  that  wild,  dark  power,  which, 
hitherto,  has  always  dragged  thee  downward. 

It  is  not  enough  to  eat  and  drink  of  the  blessed 
memorial  supper,  nor  to  listen  to  the  voice  of 
Jesus  teaching  in  His  Church.  Many  may  do  all 
this,  and  yet  never  be  included  in  the  Kingdom 
of  Heaven. 

57 


He  cannot  be  My  disciple. 

Luke  xiv.  2b,  27, 33. 

THREE  times  Christ  repeats  these  solemn 
words ;  and  it  may  be  that  earnest  men  have  done 
injury  to  His  cause,  which  they  desired  to  serve, 
by  omitting  these  stringent  conditions  in  their 
Gospel  invitations.  It  is  quite  true  that  whoso- 
ever will  may  come  and  take ;  that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  in  Him  shall  never  perish ;  that  the  door 
of  mercy  stands  open  wide.  But  it  is  equally 
true  that  the  faith  that  saves  must  pass  such  tests 
as  these ;  and  if  it  does  not,  it  is  not  of  the  quality 
which  can  bear  the  soul  through  the  swelling  bil- 
lows of  the  river  of  death.  These  three  tests  may 
be  classified  thus : 

Separation. — It  sometimes  happens  in  the  dis- 
ciple's life  that  Christ's  work  lies  in  one  direction, 
whilst  the  blessed  ties  of  home  lie  in  another. 
Tender  voices  call;  loving  hands  reach  out  to 
hold  him.  Here  the  plough  is  waiting  in  its  fur- 
row ;  there  the  hearth  with  its  tender  memory  and 
association.  At  such  times,  for  the  true  man, 
there  can  be  but  one  choice. 

Crucifixion. — Every  one  has  his  own  cross — 
some  one  thing  in  which  the  will  of  God  crosses 
his  will.  Jesus  made  that  cross,  and  bids  us  take 
it  up  and  bear  it  after  Himself.  Yet  how  many 
evade  it,  flee  from  it,  postpone  it.  They  think 
they  can  follow  Him  apart  from  it ;  but  it  is  im- 
possible. We  can  only  follow  the  Crucified  when 
we  bear  each  his  own  cross.  And  to  shrink  from 
it  shows  that  we  are  not  disciples. 

Renunciation. — All  we  have  must  be  gladly 
yielded  when  Christ  asks  for  it.  If  the  accumu- 
lation of  a  life  be  on  one  scale  and  Christ  in  the 
other,  we  must  choose  Christ,  come  what  may  to 
the  rest,  or  we  must  abandon  our  title  to  disciple- 
ship. 

58 


He  would  not  go  in. 

Luke  XV.  28. 

THE  elder  brother  is  the  dark  contrast  which 
heightens  the  glowing  picture  of  the  repentant 
prodigal ;  as  the  gargoyle  does  the  beauty  of  the 
angel  faces  on  the  cathedral  font. 

When  we  look  at  sin,  not  in  its  theological  as- 
pects, but  in  its  everyday  clothes,  we  find  that  it 
divides  itself  into  two  kinds.  We  find  that  there 
are  sins  of  the  body  and  sins  of  the  disposition ; 
or,  more  narrowly,  sins  of  the  passions,  including 
all  forms  of  lust  and  selfishness,  and  sins  of  the 
temper.  The  prodigal  is  the  instance  in  the  New 
Testament  of  sins  of  passion — the  elder  brother  of 
sins  of  temper.  Now  we  might  be  disposed  to 
think  that  the  prodigal  is  the  worse  sinner  of 
these  two ;  but  it  is  at  least  worthy  of  remark 
that  as  the  story  ends,  we  see  him  found,  forgiven, 
restored  ;  whilst  the  elder  brother  is  still  outside 
the  house,  and  an  absentee  from  the  feast.  Does 
Christ  mean  that  the  ill-tempered  murmuring  of 
the  Pharisee  is  more  hopeless  than  the  passion  of 
the  publican  and  sinner  ?  We  must  not  press  the 
thought  too  far ;  but  we  may  at  least  ask  whether 
we  are  harboring,  beneath  a  very  respectable, 
moral  exterior,  the  spirit  of  the  elder  brother, 
who  plods  daily  to  work,  and  is  accounted  a  par- 
agon of  filial  dutifulness,  but  is  left  without  the 
door. 

One  has  made  a  careful  analysis  of  the  ingredi- 
ents that  went  to  make  up  that  one  spiteful  speech ; 
they  come  out  thus :  jealousy,  anger,  pride,  unchar- 
ity,  cruelty,  self-righteousness,  sulkiness,  touchi- 
ness, doggedness.  '^  His  speech,  like  the  bubble 
escaping  to  the  surface  of  the  pool,  betrays  the 
rottenness  beneath."  Let  us  carefully  read  our 
hearts,  lest  there  be  any  trace  of  this  spirit  in  our- 
selves, when  others  are  pressing  into  the  kingdom 
with  joy. 

59 


That  which  is  another''  s. 

Luke  xvi.  12. 

OUR  Lord  is  speaking  of  money  and  its  use. 

1.  He  describes  money. — It  is  so  associated 
with  unrighteousness  that  He  speaks  of  it  as  the 
unrighteous  mammon.  It  was  as  though  the  in- 
veterate money-maker,  who  will  get  money  at  all 
costs,  was  an  idolater,  prostrating  himself  daily  in 
the  temple  of  the  heathen  deity  who  bore  that 
name.  In  His  judgment,  also,  it  is  a  very  little 
thing  (ver.  lo).  We  only  know  how  little  when 
we  compare  it  with  the  immortal  qualities  of  a 
lowly  character.  At  least,  it  is  not  the  true 
riches  (ver.  ii).  Moreover,  it  is  not  our  own — 
it  is  clearly  another's — God's  (ver.  12).  We 
have  nothing  that  we  have  not  received. 

2.  He  indicates  the  main  use  of  money. — It  is 
God's ;  but  He  puts  it  into  our  hands  to  watch 
the  use  we  will  make  of  it,  before  He  entrusts  to 
us  the  true  riches  of  eternity — ^just  as  you  will  test 
a  child  with  a  toy  watch  before  you  dare  place  in 
his  hands  a  real  one.  If  he  is  destructive  of  the 
one,  you  hesitate  to  hand  him  the  other ;  whilst  if 
he  is  careful,  you  feel  able  to  consign  to  his  care 
some  family  heirloom.  So  God  is  testing  men  by 
giving  them  money  that  He  may  know  how  far  to 
trust  them  in  the  mart  of  the  New  Jerusalem. 

3.  He  arouses  us  to  fidelity — Care  for  God's 
interests  as  much  as  the  wasteful  and  unfaithful 
steward  cared  for  his  own.  He  used  his  master's 
money  to  secure  a  welcome  to  the  debtor's  houses 
when  he  lost  his  situation.  But  God  has  so  ar- 
ranged it,  that  if  you  use  His  money  aright,  you 
shall  not  only  win  His  approbation,  but  His  in- 
terests will  be  so  coincident  with  yours,  that  when 
the  world  fades  from  view,  those  whom  you  have 
helped  for  God's  sake  shall  welcome  you  to 
heaven. 


The  kingdom  of  God  cometh  not  with  observation. 

Luke  xvii.  20. 

THE  Kingdom  is  ''  in  mystery  "  just  now.  It 
is  hidden  from  mortal  eye,  because  the  King  Him- 
self is  withdrawn  from  the  visible  sphere.  The 
creation  groans  and  travails  for  its  manifestation. 
He  must  be  manifested  before  we  can  be  man- 
ifested with  Him  in  glory.  In  the  meanwhile,  it 
is  not  without,  but  within  ;  not  compelling  human 
attention,  but  pervading  human  hearts.  Let  us 
remember  this  when  we  are  lamenting  the  slow 
progress  of  Christianity  in  the  world.  It  ap- 
pears to  recede  almost  as  quickly  as  it  advances  \ 
what  it  gains  in  one  place  it  loses  in  another.  If 
heathen  lands  are  receiving  Christ,  are  not  the 
populations  of  Christian  lands  departing  from 
Him  ?  Stay  ;  you  cannot  tell !  It  is  useless  to 
argue  !  There  may  be  much  more  good  working 
than  you  know.  For  every  bold  confessor  there 
are  probably  seven  thousand  who  have  not  bowed 
to  Baal. 

When  we  are  tempted  to  estimate  our  success 
by  numerical  results. — When  our  church  is 
crowded;  our  roll  of  communicants  constantly 
augmented;  and  the  money  revenue  large — we 
are  disposed  to  think  that  the  cause  of  Christ  is 
really  advancing  in  our  midst.  It  may  be  so. 
But  sometimes,  where  numbers  are  scant  and 
difficulties  many,  a  yet  deeper  and  more  lasting 
result  is  being  achieved. 

When  we  are  lamefiting  the  apparent  slowness 
of  our  growth  i?i  grace. — You  do  not  feel  as  you 
would  ;  nay,  to  judge  by  your  emotional  life  you 
fear  lest  you  are  positively  receding  in  the  divine 
life ;  you  think  that  the  quality  and  quantity  of 
your  fruit  unto  God  is  decreasing.  Stay;  the 
deepest  work  is  not  always  the  most  obvious. 
Before  the  mole  appears  above  the  wave,  years  of 
work  have  been  expended  where  no  eye  can  see ; 
but  every  stojie  tells  in  the  result. 
61 


Hear  what  the  unjust  judge  saith. 

Luke  xviii.  6. 

THE  force  of  this  parable  lies  in  its  succession 
of  vivid  contrasts,  which  rise  to  an  irresistible  cli- 
max. 

The  judge  is  unjust. — He  neither  fears  God 
nor  regards  man.  His  one  idea  is  to  extort  as 
much  money  as  he  can  from  the  prisoners  who  de- 
sire to  get  out  of  jail,  and  from  those  that  want 
to  keep  them  in,  or  put  others  to  share  their  fate. 
But  God  is  our  Father,  unimpeachable  in  His 
integrity,  and  only  eager  to  promote  our  welfare. 

The  judge  had  no  personal  interest  in  the  claim- 
ant.— She  had  no  personal  attraction  for  him. 
Had  she  been  possessed  of  property,  he  might 
have  cared  more.  But  now  he  looked  on  her  as  a 
pest  that  plagued  and  worried  him.  But  we  are 
God's  elect,  over  whom  His  tender  heart  yearns. 
Did  He  not  choose  us  before  all  the  worlds  unto 
His  glory? 

The  judge  answered  the  widow's  cry  just  to 
save  himself  trouble. — Whenever  he  went  to  his 
seat,  there  she  was.  Though  he  had  refused  to 
hear  her  a  score  of  times,  there  was  her  voice 
again,  as  clear  and  penetrating  as  ever.  She  had 
been  forcibly  hurried  from  his  presence  by  his 
officials,  and  she  had  been  borne  screaming  and 
remonstrating  into  the  rear ;  but  she  never  knew 
herself  defeated.  At  last  he  could  bear  it  no 
longer,  and  gave  orders  that  her  patrimony  should 
be  restored. 

And  will  not  God  do  as  much,  as,  generation 
after  generation.  He  sees  His  Church,  like  a  wid- 
owed soul,  oppressed  by  the  great  enemy  and  aven- 
ger? As  He  hears  the  cries  of  martyrs  and 
saints ;  the  perpetual  prayer,  Come,  Lord  Jesus ; 
the  insolent  boast  of  the  foe — will  He  not  arise 
and  avenge  ?  Yes,  verily,  speedily  !  But  it  may 
seem  long  to  us,  because  one  thousand  years  with 
Him  are  as  one  day. 

62 


They  said,  The  Lord  hath  need  of  him. 

Luke  xix.  ^4. 

OH,  could  I  hear  Thee  say  as  much  of  me,  my 
blessed  Lord  !  Here,  where  two  ways  meet,  I 
have  been  standing  long,  waiting  for  a  purpose 
worthy  to  fill  my  soul,  and  task  the  powers  that 
are,  as  yet,  only  in  the  first  burst  of  young  life. 

Thou  needest  much  and  many  in  Thy  great  re- 
demptive work.  The  boat  to  cross  the  lake ;  the 
line  to  catch  the  fish ;  the  bread  and  fish  to  feed 
the  crowds;  the  baskets  to  gather  up  the  frag- 
ments ;  the  chalice  to  hold  the  wine ;  the  dish  to 
hold  the  sop ;  the  little  child  to  be  the  text  for 
Thy  sermon ;  the  clay  for  the  blind  man's  eyes; 
the  tender  women  to  minister  of  their  substance ; 
the  apostles  to  preach  Thy  Gospel.  Canst  Thou 
not  find  a  nitch  for  me  also  ? 

Thou  requirest  undivided  loyalty. — Bom  of  the 
Virgin's  womb,  laid  in  death  where  man's  dust 
had  never  come,  Thou  must  have  a  colt  on  which 
none  had  ever  sat.  I  cannot  give  Thee  a  heart 
which  has  never  known  another ;  but  I  profess  to 
Thee  that  there  is  no  rival  now.  Thou  mayest 
have  all.     Thine  is  the  Kingdom. 

Thou  requirest  patience  and  humility. — But 
these,  also,  Thou  hast  taught.  I  have  waited 
patiently  till  this  glad  hour,  and  am  quieted  and 
humbled  like  a  weaned  child.  No  longer  do  I 
seek  great  things  for  myself.  It  is  enough  for  me 
to  be  and  do  anything,  if  only  Thou  shalt  be 
glorified. 

Thoii  requirest,  perhaps,  but  one  brief  service. 
— To  serve  Thee  always  with  increasing  fervor 
would  be  my  choice ;  but  if  Thou  needest  only 
one  brief,  glad  hour  of  ministry,  like  that  the 
good  Ananias  did  to  Thy  Church  when  he  minis- 
tered to  Saul,  then  be  it  so.  To  prepare  for  it, 
and  revert  to  it,  would  be  my  satisfaction  in  hav- 
ing lived. 


Whose  image  and  superscription  hath  it  ? 

Luke  XX.  24. 
OUR  Lord  more  than  once  compared  men  to 
coins.  He  spoke  of  the  woman  who  lost  one 
piece  of  silver,  and  searched  till  she  had  found  it. 
The  analogy  might  be  carried  out  in  many  partic- 
ulars ;  for  as  the  ore  passes  through  the  crucible, 
and  many  another  process,  before  it  is  stamped 
with  the  image  of  the  sovereign,  so  do  souls  ex- 
perience many  fiery  trials  ere  they  can  receive  and 
keep  the  impression  of  heaven's  mint,  which  is  the 
face  of  Jesus. 

Whose  image  dost  thou  bear  ? — Is  there  a 
clear-cut  outline  of  the  features  of  Christ,  so 
manifest  that  those  who  touch  and  handle  you 
are  irresistibly  reminded  of  Him;  or  have  the 
features  of  your  King,  which  were  once  clear-cut, 
become  effaced  ? 

Whose  is  thy  superscription  ?  Is  A.  D.  there  ? 
— the  year  in  which  you  were  born  into  the  king- 
dom of  God,  the  year  of  our  Lord,  the  year  of 
your  eternal  life  ?  Is  ^' Dei  gratia''  there  ?  (By 
the  grace  of  God).  So  that  all  the  while  those 
who  know  you  magnify  the  exceeding  riches  of 
His  love  as  manifested  in  you.  Is  '*  Chris tus 
Rex  "  there  ?  (Christ  the  King).  Are  you  abso- 
lutely Christ's — to  serve  and  to  obey?  Is  ''  Fid. 
Defy  there?  (Defender  of  the  Faith).  Do  you 
keep  the  deposit  of  Christ's  holy  Gospel,  as  you 
look  to  Him  to  keep  the  deposit  which  you  have 
committed  to  Him  ?  Is  the  lion  on  the  quarter- 
ings  ? — speaking  of  the  strength  of  the  Lion  of 
Judah  imparted  to  your  soul.  Is  the  harp  amongst 
them  ? — indicating  the  subjection  of  every  string 
of  your  life  to  His  finger.  Is  the  crown  there  ? 
— indicating  how  absolutely  you  have  placed  the 
empire  of  your  nature  upon  the  brow  of  your 
Lord.  Then  weave  together  the  rose  of  Sharon 
and  the  lily  of  the  valley  as  the  symbol  of  His 
reign. 

64 


Watch  ye  at  every  season,  making  supplication, 

Luke  xxi.jb  (R.  v.). 

LET  us  never  release  the  girdle  from  around 
our  loins,  nor  throw  ourselves  listlessly  upon  the 
bank  to  drink,  whilst  the  enemy  may  be  stealing 
up  against  the  wind.  It  is  the  art  of  our  great 
enemy  to  fill  the  air  with  the  heavy  breath  of  the 
poppy ;  that,  like  the  lotus-eaters  of  the  old  legend, 
we  may  be  indisposed  for  the  perils  and  toils  of 
our  onward  journey. 

Watch  ye  in  the  season  of  festivity. — When 
merry  voices  fill  the  chamber  with  mirth,  and 
jokes  pass ;  old  stories  are  retold  j  quaint  anec- 
dotes circulated — remember  to  look  frequently  up 
into  the  Master's  face,  to  discover  if  aught  has 
covered  it  with  shame,  or  filled  it  with  regret. 
Let  not  your  heart  be  overcharged  with  surfeiting 
drunkenness. 

Watch  ye  in  hours  of  stress  and  anxiety. — 
These  will  come  between  the  soul  and  Christ,  op- 
pressing us  with  anxious  care,  leading  us  to  think 
too  much  of  the  things  which  are  seen  and  tran- 
sient, and  filling  our  hearts  with  dismay,  as  though 
the  future  would  find  us  orphans  and  homeless, 
because  the  storm  had  swept  away  some  few  gath- 
erings of  the  earth's  perishable  stores.  When  stocks 
are  falling,  business  declining,  competition  increas- 
ing— Watch  !  Make  supplication  !  Stand  before 
the  Son  of  Man  as  those  whom  He  cannot  forget 
or  forsake. 

Watch  ye  in  seasons  of  tender  love. — We  wear 
armor  abroad,  but  when  we  come  within  the  closed 
door  of  the  home,  and  our  hearts  expand  beneath 
the  genial  warmth  of  kindred  natures,  how  apt  we 
are  to  cry.  Now,  surely,  we  may  unbend,  ungird, 
and  let  nature  have  free  course.  But  the  Master 
says.  Watch  ye  at  every  season  ;  and  He  reminds 
us  that  we  never  cease  to  stand  before  the  Son  of 
Man. 

65 


Simon,  Simon,  behold  Satan  asked  to  have  you 
that  he  might  sift  you  as  wheat.       Luke  xxU.  31. 

THE  Master  apparently  did  not  pray  that 
temptation  should  be  withheld.  The  quick  eye 
of  His  affection  had  discerned  the  tempter's  ap- 
proach. His  quick  ear  had  detected  Satan's  re- 
quest of  the  Father ;  as  though  he  said,  *'  Let  me 
have  the  chance  for  one  brief  hour,  and  I  will 
show  that  these  men,  so  far  from  being  gold, 
silver,  and  precious  stones,  are  only  wood,  hay, 
and  stubble."  But  though  He  knew  all  this,  the 
Master  did  not  request  that  the  winnowing  wind 
should  be  withheld.  Why?  Because  temptation 
is  part  of  the  prese?it  order  of  the  world.  Why 
it  is  so  we  cannot  tell ;  that  it  is  so  we  know  as- 
suredly. Why  the  Almighty  permitted  the  evil 
one  to  intrude  into  paradise,  and  to  assail  every 
single  soul  of  woman  born,  that  has  passed  to 
years  of  consciousness,  we  shall  probably  never 
understand  until  mystery  drops  from  our  eyes  in 
the  meridian  light  of  heaven.  We  only  are  sure 
that  the  permission  of  temptation  is  not  inconsist- 
ent with  His  almightiness  or  beneficence. 

Because  temptation  tests  character  and  reveals 
us  to  ourselves  and  to  ofie  another. — Was  it  not 
well  that  Peter  should  know  how  weak  he  was ; 
that  he  might  become  truly  penitent  and  con- 
verted ?  Was  it  not  befitting  that  Judas  should 
be  exposed  before  the  day  of  Pentecost  ?  Was  it 
not  best  that  the  foundation  stones  of  the  Church 
should  be  well  tested  ?  It  is  better  to  learn  our 
weakness  now  and  here  than  at  the  Judgment- 
seat. 

But  if  Satan  tempts,  our  Advocate  pleads.  He 
anticipates  the  advent  of  temptation  by  storing  up 
His  prayers.  He  warns  the  soul  when  the  hawk 
begins  to  hover.  If  He  may  not  arrest  tempta- 
tion. He  will  at  least  ask  that  our  faith  may  not 
fail ;  and  will  seek  us  out  as  He  did  Peter. 
66 


Verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  To-day  shalt  thou  he  with 
Me  in  Paradise.  Luke  xxiii.  43. 

TO-DAY! — Dost  thou  ask  Me  to  remember 
thee  at  some  distant  moment,  when  the  kingdom 
of  which  I  am  now  laying  the  foundations  shall 
have  become  the  all-conquering  kingdom  of  the 
world  ?  Thou  needest  not  wait  so  long.  I  say 
unto  thee  that  this  very  day,  when  yonder  sun 
now  scorching  above  our  heads  is  sinking  in  the 
west,  and  the  shadows  lie  long  from  our  crosses, 
and  the  people  have  gone  to  their  homes,  thou 
shalt  be  with  Me,  where  the  sun  shall  no  more  be 
thy  light  by  day,  nor  the  moon  by  night,  but  the 
Lord  shall  be  thy  everlasting  light. 

Thoic  shalt  be  with  Me. — Dost  thou  ask  only  to 
be  remembered  ;  that  I  should  give  thee  the  glance 
of  a  thought ;  that  I  shall  recall  thy  voice  and 
face  for  a  brief  moment?  Thou  shalt  be  with 
Me,  for  I  will  await  thee  on  the  confines  of  My 
home.  The  throngs  which  escort  Me  shall  be- 
hold thee  by  My  side,  and  when  I  sit  upon  My 
sapphire  throne  I  will  give  thee  to  sit  beside  Me, 
the  one  who,  in  My  mortal  anguish,  trod  the  vale 
of  the  shadow,  and  who,  with  Me,  shall  tread  the 
paths  of  light  and  glory. 

In  Paradise. — I  am  here  regaining  Paradise. 
All  that  was  lost  is  being  recovered.  Within  a 
few  hours  it  will  be  Mine  to  give ;  within  a  few 
hours  its  key  will  be  in  My  hand ;  within  a  few 
hours  thou  shalt  walk  with  Me  there  in  the  cool 
of  the  day,  and  the  angel  that  drove  out  Adam 
shall  keep  watch  lest  the  Serpent  enter  to  molest. 

Verily,  I  say  unto  thee. — All  this  is  fixed  and 
certain.  I  say  '< verily"  to  thee  because  the 
Father  hath  said  "verily"  to  Me.  Oh,  trem- 
bling soul,  who  hast  fled  for  refuge,  to  lay  hold 
upon  the  hope  set  before  thee,  thou  mayest 
have  strong  encouragement  from  My  Word  and 
death. 

67 


Crucified,  and  the  third  day  rise  again. 

Luke  xxiv.  J. 

THESE  are  the  two  poles  of  Christian  life — 
Death  and  Resurrection.  That  which  was  true 
in  the  history  of  our  Lord  must  have  its  counter- 
part in  our  own  experiences.  That  Jesus  died 
and  rose  again  is  not  only  the  dual  basis  of  justi- 
fication, but  it  is  the  dual  basis  of  sanctification. 
Did  He  die  ?  Then  we  must  arm  ourselves  with 
the  same  mind.  The  crucifixion  was  not  finished 
on  Calvary;  it  has  continued  through  all  ages, 
and  will  continue  unto  the  end ;  not  in  its  media- 
torial and  atoning  aspect,  but  with  the  view  of 
each  man  denying  himself  and  taking  up  his  cross 
to  follow  daily.  So  also  we  are  perpetually  leav- 
ing the  things  of  time  and  sense  where  Christ 
left  His  grave-clothes,  and  are  pressing  up  and 
on  in  the  wake  of  His  resurrection  and  ascen- 
sion. 

It  is  a  solemn  question,  how  far  we  are  partici- 
pating in  this  daily  dying  and  daily  rising.  *'  Be 
not  conformed  to  this  world;  but  be  ye  trans- 
formed. Mortify  your  members  which  are  upon 
the  earth ;  seek  those  things  which  are  above. 
If  one  died  for  all,  then  all  died;  that  they 
which  live  should  not  henceforth  live  unto  them- 
selves, but  unto  Him  who  died  for  them  and  rose 
again." 

It  is  not  that  the  old  nature  dies,  but  that  we 
die  to  it.  As  a  matter  of  experience  and  walk, 
the  results  will  be  very  similar  from  either  of  these 
ways  of  stating  the  fact.  But  it  is  true  to  Scrip- 
ture and  experience  also  to  speak  of  reckoning 
ourselves  to  be  dead  indeed  unto  sin — that  is,  the 
root-principle  which  so  often  fruits  in  sins.  Reckon 
that  the  grave  of  Christ  lies  between  thee  and  the 
solicitations  of  the  world,  the  flesh,  and  the  devil. 
Deem  thyself  dead  to  thyself.  All  this,  however, 
is  only  possible  through  the  Holy  Spirit. 
68 


Thou  shalt  see  greater  things  than  these, 

John  i.  ^o. 

GOD'S  dealings  with  us  are  always  on  an  as- 
cending scale.  If  we  see  clearly  the  lowest  rung 
in  the  heavenly  ladder,  whilst  we  behold,  the  veil 
of  mist  will  part,  and  we  shall  see  the  next  above 
it,  and  then  the  next,  and,  in  due  order,  the  next ; 
and  so  the  steps  that  slope  away  through  dark- 
ness up  to  God  will  always  be  beckoning  to  greater 
and  yet  greater  things. 

Have  you  known  Christ  as  the  Word  ?  He  is 
more ;  both  Spirit  and  Life. 

Has  He  become  flesh  ?  You  shall  behold  Him 
glorified  with  the  glory  He  had  before  the  worlds. 

Have  you  known  Him  as  Alpha,  before  all? 
He  is  also  Omega. 

Have  you  met  John  ?  You  shall  meet  One  so 
much  greater,  that  the  latchet  of  His  shoes  the 
Baptist  shall  deem  himself  unworthy  to  unloose. 

Do  you  know  the  baptism  by  water?  You 
shall  be  baptized  by  fire. 

Have  you  beheld  the  Lamb  on  the  Cross  ?  You 
shall  behold  Him  in  the  midst  of  the  throne. 

Have  you  seen  the  Spirit  descend  as  a  dove  on 
one  head?  You  shall  see  Him  come  as  a  fire 
upon  an  unnumbered  multitude. 

Have  you  followed  the  Christ  to  the  slight 
booth  in  the  Jordan  Valley?  You  shall  enter 
with  Him  into  mansions  of  eternal  glory. 

Do  you  acknowledge  Him  as  King  of  Israel  ? 
You  shall  hear  the  acclamations  that  salute  Him 
as  King  of  the  worlds. 

Live  up  to  all  you  know,  and  you  shall 
know  more.  Be  all  you  can,  and  you  shall 
become  more.  Do  all  that  your  two  talents 
permit,  and  you  will  find  yourself  ruler  over  four 
cities. 


Thou  hast  kept  the  good  wine  until  now, 

John  it.  10. 

THE  world  gives  its  best  first.  As  youth  and 
beauty  are  ushered  into  the  banqueting-room  of 
life,  the  world  spreads  the  table  with  its  best.  The 
zest  of  enjoyment  is  keen  in  those  young  days,  but 
it  is  soon  satiated  ;  the  delicacies  with  which  the 
table  is  spread  pall,  and  the  appetite,  unduly  stim- 
ulated at  the  first,  demands  coarser  and  more  pas- 
sionate delights  to  stimulate.  At  last  the  table  is 
served  with  provision,  from  which,  in  the  first 
days,  the  banqueters  would  have  turned  away  dis- 
gusted. 

But  if  you  let  the  King  lead  you  into  His  ban- 
queting house,  beneath  His  banner  of  love  you 
will  find  yourself  feeding  on  dainties  which  never 
satiate  nor  pall — ^which  whet  the  appetite  and  give 
the  taste  a  more  delicate  appreciation  of  the  vint- 
ages of  heaven. 

You  may  say  this  of  the  Word  of  God. — At  the 
beginning  of  Christian  life  it  is  full  of  meaning  and 
inspiration ;  but  as  the  years  pass,  and  we  realize 
ever  more  of  its  helpfulness,  we  repeat  the  refrain, 
<*  Thou  hast  kept  the  best  until  now  !  " 

You  may  say  this  of  Christian  love. — Let  two 
love  in  Christ,  and  instead  of  their  affection  wan- 
ing, as  so  often  happens  in  the  world,  they  will 
discover  that  the  fellowship,  which  began  in  com- 
radeship, will  end  in  a  sacramental  meal ;  truest, 
purest,  deepest  enjoyment  being  kept  for  Paradise. 

You  may  say  it  of  heaven. — Neither  hath  eye 
seen  nor  heart  conceived  the  things,  even  now  and 
here,  that  God  has  prepared  for  those  that  love 
Him.  But  so  soon  as  the  redeemed  spirit  shall 
awaken  in  the  uncreated  glory  of  God's  presence, 
it  will  exclaim,  **  The  half  was  never  told  ;  Thou 
hast  kept  the  best  until  now."  At  every  moment 
and  always  God  is  giving  His  best. 
70 


A  man  can  receive  nothing,  except  it  have  been 
given  him  from  heaven.  John  Hi.  zy  (r.  v.). 

AFTER  six  months  of  marvellous  ministry,  in 
which  the  Baptist  had  seen  the  whole  land  at  his 
feet,  had  gathered  a  band  of  disciples,  and  intro- 
duced the  Messiah  to  the  Jewish  people,  he  found 
the  crowds  dwindling.  His  disciples  viewed  with 
feelings  of  chagrin  the  transference  of  popular  in- 
terest from  their  master  to  Him  of  whom  he  had 
borne  witness. 

WJiat  John  the  Baptist  meant  by  it. — He  real- 
ized that  the  crowds,  the  hushed  attention,  the 
swift  response,  the  power  of  speech,  the  message, 
the  deep  repentance,  the  office  of  morning  star 
heralding  the  Dayspring  from  on  high,  had  been 
the  gift  of  God.  He  had  nothing  which  he  had 
not  received ;  he  would  have  received  nothing, 
except  God  had  given  it  to  him.  Whether  these 
things  went  or  came  was  a  matter  altogether  be- 
yond his  control.  His  part  was  to  receive  and 
use  what  God  gave ;  and  then  return  to  Him,  at 
His  bidding,  the  saved  talent.  This  forbade  alike 
pride  and  despondency. 

What  we  may  learn  by  it. — Humility  and  peace. 
Humility.  Is  this  the  time  of  your  prosperity? 
Crowds  wait  on  your  words ;  mighty  movements 
circle  around  you ;  glorious  results  follow  on  your 
plans  !  Do  not  be  puffed  up.  Boast  not  your- 
self *'Who  maketh  thee  to  differ?  and  what 
hast  thou  that  thou  didst  not  receive  ?  but  if  thou 
didst  receive  it,  why  dost  thou  glory,  as  if  thou 
hadst  not  received  it  ?  "  Peace.  If  it  is  not  due 
to  your  lethargy  or  sloth  that  the  crowds  have 
ebbed  away,  and  that  the  tide  of  conversions  has 
dropped  below  its  former  level,  be  at  peace. 
These  are  things  which  the  Holy  Spirit  work- 
eth,  dividing  to  each  one  severally  even  as  He 
wiU. 

71 


If  thou  knewest  the  gift  of  God.  ... 

John  iv.  lo. 

THERE  are  wonderful  contrasts  here  !  He 
who  gives  rest  sits  weary  on  the  well-head ;  He 
who  was  the  Jews'  Messiah  utters  His  deepest  les- 
sons to  a  woman  of  Samaria ;  He  that  gives  living 
water  asks  for  water  from  the  dark,  cool  depths 
that  lay  beneath  them. 

God' 5  best  things  are  gifts. — Light,  air,  nat- 
ural beauty,  elasticity  of  the  spirits,  the  sense  of 
vigorous  health,  human  love,  and,  above  all,  His 
only  begotten  and  beloved  Son.  Among  all  other 
gifts  is  there  one  to  be  compared  to  this  ?  The 
living  spring  of  eternal  life,  which  Jesus  opens  up 
in  our  hearts,  and  which  so  greatly  differs  from  the 
pit  of  outward  ordinance,  is  an  altogether  un- 
speakable bestowment.  Nothing  can  purchase  it. 
If  a  man  would  give  all  the  substance  of  his  house 
for  it,  it  would  be  utterly  contemned.  It  must  be 
received  as  a  gift,  or  not  at  all. 

God^s  gifts  must  be  asked  for. — ''Thou 
wouldest  have  asked,  and  He  would  have  given." 
This  is  the  law  of  heaven.  Prayer  is  a  necessary 
link  between  the  Divine  hand  that  gives  and  the 
human  heart  that  receives.  We  have  not,  because 
we  ask  not.  There  is  nothing  in  our  Lord's  words 
of  the  dreamy  and  languid  pietism  which  refuses 
to  ask  because  it  will  not  dictate  to  the  perfect 
wisdom  of  God. 

If  we  had  fuller  hiowledge  we  should  pray 
more. — ''If  thou  knewest  .  .  .  thou  wouldest 
*ask."  If  thou  knewest  who  He  is  that  stands  be- 
side thee,  in  thy  hours  of  private  prayer — if  thou 
knewest  all  the  possibilities  of  the  life  of  prayer — 
if  thou  knewest  what  gains  would  accrue  to 
thee  on  thy  knees,  thou  wouldest  give  thyself  to 
prayer,  as  though  it  were  the  main  object  of  thy 
life. 

72 


The  Father  loveth  the  So?t,  and  showeth  Him  all 
things  that  Himself  doeth.  John  v.  20. 

HEAVEN  stands  open  to  me,  my  Lord,  in 
these  deep  and  holy  words.  Through  the  open 
door  I  see  the  source  of  the  golden  light  that  shone 
around  Thy  earthly  life,  and  detect  the  secret  of 
the  music  that  ever  sounded  around  Thy  path,  as 
the  music  of  the  golden  bells  when  Aaron  passed 
to  and  fro. 

The  Father  loved  Thee,  not  only  because  Thou 
wert  His  Son,  dwelling  in  His  bosom,  but  because 
Thou  wert  His  obedient  Servant.  And  I  would 
inherit  a  similar  love ;  not  only  the  love  of  my 
adoption,  but  of  service;  for  Thou  saidst,  ''If  a 
man  love  Me,  he  will  keep  My  word,  and  My 
Father  will  love  him." 

The  Father  was  ever  showing  Thee  what  He 
was  doing  in  the  unseen  and  eternal  depths.  In- 
deed, it  seemed  that  Thou  wert  more  occupied  in 
beholding  the  things  which  were  unseen  than  those 
which  were  seen.  Thine  eye  was  ever  on  the 
dial -plate  of  eternity,  and  Thine  ear  attent  to  the 
note  of  the  tide  on  its  shore.  Thou  didst  nothing 
that  was  not  in  the  pattern  shown  Thee  on  the 
mount  of  fellowship ;  but  whatever  was  wrought 
there  Thou  didst  here.  Teach  me  to  live  like 
this. 

Thy  Father  led  Thee  to  ever  greater  works. 
First  the  daughter  of  Jairus,  then  Lazarus ;  first 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  then  the  prophecies  of 
the  closing  days ;  first  the  Mountain  of  Transfig- 
uration, then  of  Ascension.  So  would  I  be  led 
forward,  from  Cana  to  Calvary ;  from  Bethlehem 
to  Bethany ;  from  Jerusalem  to  the  uttermost  part 
of  the  world.  Ever  greater  things,  because  with 
profounder  humility  and  deeper  insight  into  the 
meaning  of  Thy  death.  Deeper  and  therefore 
higher  \  nearer  Thy  cross,  and  therefore  reaching 
further. 

73 


For  Him  the  Father ^  even  God,  hath  sealed. 

John  VI.  ^7  (R.  v.). 

THE  seal  is  the  mark  of  authentication.  The 
Book  of  Esther  often  refers  to  the  importance  of 
the  royal  seal  as  giving  validity  and  authenticity 
to  documents  to  which  it  was  appended.  So  at 
the  waters  of  Jordan  God  authenticated  our  Lord  ; 
first  by  the  voice  that  spake  from  heaven,  and  sec- 
ondly by  the  holy  anointing  that  came  upon  His 
head,  setting  Him  apart  for  holy  service.  What 
the  Father  did  for  His  Son,  He  does  for  His  sons. 
*'  He  that  stablisheth  us  with  you  into  Christ,  and 
anointed  us,  is  God,  who  also  sealed  us."  In 
other  words,  God  waits  to  authenticate  us  to  our- 
selves and  to  the  world,  as  His  beloved  children, 
in  whom  He  is  well  pleased. 

The  conditions  of  sealing. — In  the  case  of  our 
Lord  there  was  entire  subjection  to  the  Father's 
will,  although  it  involved  His  leaving  the  blessed 
home  of  Nazareth  and  identifying  Himself  with 
the  sins  and  sorrows  of  men,  by  baptism  in  waters 
where  they  had  confessed  their  sins.  We,  too, 
must  be  prepared  to  obey  utterly,  even  to  death. 

The  agent  of  sealing. — The  Spirit  descended 
and  abode  upon  Him;  He  was  filled  with  the 
Spirit,  and  returned  in  His  power  to  Galilee.  We, 
too,  are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise; 
who  stamps  us  with  the  die  of  our  Saviour's  image 
and  superscription.  Simultaneously  with  His 
gracious  work  upon  us,  we  may  detect  His  loving 
voice  within  us,  witnessing  with  our  spirits  that 
we  are  children  of  God. 

The  effect  of  sealing. — Secrecy,  safety,  and  as- 
surance. Secrecy,  Song  of  Sol.  iv.  12.  Safety, 
Matt,  xxvii.  65,  66.  Asstirance,  Rom.  viii.  15, 
16,  17.  There  is  also  a  daily  assimilation,  though 
we  know  it  not,  to  the  glorious  likeness  of  our 
Lord ;  so  that  those  who  see  us  bear  witness  that 
His  name  is  on  us, 

74 


The  Spirit  was  not  given  ;  because  Jesus  was  not 
yet  glorified.  John  vii.  J9  (r.  v.). 

CALVARY  must  precede  the  Ascension,  and 
both  must  come  before  Pentecost.  The  glorified 
Lord  was  the  text  on  which  the  Spirit  was  to  dis- 
course, and  the  text  must  be  complete  before  the 
sermon  can  commence.  Moreover,  it  was  only 
when  our  Lord  had  ascended  to  the  right  hand  of 
the  Father,  that  He  could  receive  or  transmit  the 
Divine  Comforter.  It  was  needful  for  Him  to  be 
by  the  right  hand  of  God  exalted,  before  He 
could  ask  for  and  receive,  and  shed  forth  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  promise.  The  one  Paraclete  must 
finish  His  work,  and  be  withdrawn,  ere  the  other 
could  come  to  take  up  and  finish  His  work  on 
earth.  The  Son  must  sit  down  on  the  throne,  or 
the  Spirit  could  not  descend  to  sit  on  each  of  the 
disciples. 

But  there  is  a  deep  inner  lesson  for  us  all  in 
these  words.  We  sometimes  wonder  why  we  have 
not  received  the  Spirit,  and  why  our  lives  are  not 
channels  through  which  He  pours  in  mighty  rivers 
to  make  desert  hearts  and  lives  blossom  and  sing. 
How  gladly  would  we  part  with  all  beside,  if  we 
might  be  conscious  that  not  tiny  streamlets,  not 
one  river  of  holy  influence  merely,  but  that  rivers 
were  issuing  from  us  as  the  waters  from  the  temple 
threshold  ! 

Is  not  the  reason  to  be  sought  in  our  neglect  to 
glorify  Christ?  We  have  never  yet  abandoned 
ourselves  to  Him,  content  to  live  the  branch-life, 
with  no  other  aim  than  to  realize  the  one  purpose 
of  His  most  blessed  life,  the  glorifying  of  the 
Father.  We  have  never  seriously  made  it  our 
life-purpose  to  glorify  the  Lord  Jesus.  There  has 
been  no  triumphal  entry  into  our  hearts,  no  en- 
thronization,  no  challenge  to  the  gates  of  our  soul 
that  they  should  lift  themselves  up  to  admit  the 
King  of  Glory. 

75 


If  ye  abide  in  My  word. 

John  via.  J I  (r.  v.). 

1 .  We  shall  be  approved  as  Christ's  disciples. 
— "Then  are  ye  truly  My  disciples."  Of  some 
the  Master  asks,  '*  Why  call  ye  Me,  Lord,  Lord, 
and  do  not  the  things  which  I  say?  "  And  He 
drives  these  from  Him,  saying,  * '  I  never  knew 
you."  His  words  are  the  supreme  test — the  fire 
which  detects  the  ore;  the  winnowing-fan  that 
finds  out  the  wheat.  Our  treatment  of  our  Lord's 
words  discriminates  us :  He  that  hath  my  com- 
mandments, and  keepeth  t"hem,  is  he  that  loveth 
Me. 

2.  We  shall  know  the  truth. — God  teaches  us 
diiferently  from  men.  They  deal  in  perad ventures 
and  surmises  ;  He  with  certainties — "  Ye  shall 
know  the  truth."  They  talk  about  the  truth ;  He 
gives  us  the  thing  itself,  and  we  know  because 
we  possess.  They  deal  with  circumstances  and 
externals  ;  He  with  the  heart  and  root  of  matters. 
They  give  to  the  mind  and  soul ;  He  to  the  spirit. 
We  know  the  truth,  because  the  Truth  is  in  us, 
and  we  are  in  the  Truth.  *' We  know  that  the 
Son  of  God  is  come,  and  hath  given  us  an  un- 
derstanding, that  we  know  Him  that  is  true,  and 
we  are  in  Him  that  is  true." 

3.  We  shall  be  free. — "The  truth  shall  make 
you  free."  Just  as  we  are  free  from  the  terrors 
which  belief  in  witchcraft  and  ghosts  was  wont  to 
breed,  because  we  know  that  the  spirits  of  the 
dead  do  not  haunt  dark  and  dangerous  places ; 
just  as  we  no  longer  fear  the  fatuous  light  over  the 
marsh,  or  the  death-tick,  because  science  has  at- 
tributed these  to  natural  causes;  so,  as  Jesus 
teaches  us  the  truth  about  God,  and  the  future, 
and  the  forgiveness  of  sins,  and  the  broken  power 
of  Satan,  and  the  impotence  of  death,  we  are  de- 
livered from  the  bondage  of  fear,  and  walk  with 
God  in  perfect  peace. 

76 


We  must  work  the  works  of  Him  that  sent  Me. 

John  ix.  4  (R.  v.). 

IS  not  this  exceedingly  tender  and  beautiful  ? 
The  Lord  does  not  hesitate  to  describe  Himself 
as  specially  designated  to  do  a  certain  work.  In 
every  part  of  this  Gospel  He  speaks  of  Himself 
as  the  sent  One  ;  but  He  graciously  conjoins  His 
disciples  and  friends  in  it,  saying,  We  must  work. 
It  is  as  though  He  said,  "  I  have  a  designated  work 
which  must  needs  be  done ;  but  I  cannot  do  it 
alone.     We  must  do  it,  you  and  I,  together." 

Fellowship  with  God  the  Father  is  the  law  of 
all  industry, — Every  crop  that  goldens  in  the 
summer  wind  is  due  to  the  summons  of  the  God 
of  Nature  to  the  husbandman,  ''  Come  and  let  us 
work  together,  thou  and  I."  Every  achievement 
in  factory  or  mill  of  textile  fabrics  is  due  to  the 
combination  of  the  Divine  laws  and  the  human 
agency.  We  must  work,  is  God's  constant  ap- 
peal. 

Fellowship  with  the  Son  is  the  law  of  the 
Kingdom. — We  have  been  called  into  the  fellow- 
ship or  partnership  of  the  Son  of  God.  He  does 
not  say,  Go,  but  come ;  not,  Do  this,  but.  Let  us 
do  it.  He  has  set  His  heart  on  the  glory  of  the 
Father,  and  He  calls  us  to  cooperate  with  Him 
in  bringing  back  men  to  God.  In  some  way  we 
must  contribute  to  the  final  result  on  which  Christ 
has  set  His  heart. 

Fellowship  with  the  Holy  Spirit  is  the  law  of 
all  successful  service. — The  closing  words  of  the 
benediction  that  refer  to  the  communion  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  are  specially  significant.  ''We  are 
witnesses,  and  so  is  also  the  Holy  Ghost."  The 
Spirit  and  the  Bride  say  Come.  As  Peter  be- 
gan to  speak,  the  Holy  Ghost  fell.  Oh  for  pure 
hands  and  a  clean  heart,  that  we  may  be  worthy 
of  this  Divine  confederacy  ! 
77 


John  did  no  miracle  ;  but  all  things  that  John 
spake  of  this  Man  were  true.  John  x.  41. 

THIS  is  full  of  rare  interest  and  beauty.  John 
the  Baptist  had  been  dead  some  two  years  at  least, 
and  the  memory  of  good  men  is  apt  quickly  to 
pass  from  the  mind  of  their  contemporaries,  espe- 
cially when  they  are  eclipsed  by  some  greater  suc- 
cessor. Who  thinks  of  the  morning  star  when 
the  sun  has  risen  !  But  as  the  crowds  came  back 
again  on  the  spot  so  closely  identified  with  Christ's 
forerunner,  he  was  recalled  to  mind ;  and  they 
used  of  him  the  words  ascribed  to  them  in  our 
text. 

Your  life  may  be  without  miracle. — It  may  pass 
on  with  nothing  to  distinguish  it  above  the  lives 
of  myriads  around.  There  is  no  sensation-mak- 
ing note  in  your  voice ;  no  extraordinary  intel- 
lectual calibre  in  your  mind ;  no  aptitude  for 
wielding  vast  influence  over  the  crowds.  The 
years  pass  on  with  even  monotony.  Life  is  one 
dead  level. 

But  mind  you  speak  true  words  of  Jesus 
Christ. — Point  to  Him  and  say,  Behold  the  Lamb 
of  God  !  Say  of  Him,  This  is  He  that  baptizeth 
with  the  Holy  Ghost.  Announce  Him  as  the 
Bridegroom,  and  be  content  to  be  the  Bride- 
groom's friend.  Say  that  He  has  His  winnow- 
ing-fan  and  axe  in  hand.  Be  careless  what  men 
think  of  your  accent,  your  gestures,  your  way  of 
stating  the  truth ;  but  go  on  bearing  witness  to 
what  you  have  known,  tasted,  and  handled  of  the 
Word  of  Life. 

After  your  death,  your  words  may  come  to 
mind  again,  a?td  be  the  means  of  bringifig  souls 
to  the  Lamb  of  God. — As  corn-seeds,  buried  in 
mummy-cases,  now  bloom  on  English  soil,  so  may 
words  be  carried  in  the  memory  through  long 
years,  and  bear  fruit  after  the  speaker's  death. 
What  an  epitaph  for  the  grave  of  a  Christian 
minister  or  teacher  ! 

78 


Said  I  not  ufito  thee,  that,  if  thou  believedst,  thou 
shouldest  see  the  glory  of  God?  yohnxi.4o(y..y). 

YES,  we  shall  see  the  glory  of  God.  We  shall 
see  the  graves  give  up  their  dead — not  only  at  the 
last  day,  but  now.  Thousands  around  us  are 
dead  in  trespasses  and  sins,  in  which  they  walk 
according  to  the  course  of  this  world.  Alas  ! 
more  than  this,  they  stink  in  the  putridity  of 
their  lives  and  speech.  Around  their  graves 
gather  their  friends  and  relatives,  bathed  in 
tears,  but  unable  to  arrest  the  progress  of  decay. 
But,  if  we  will  believe,  we  shall  see  the  glory  of 
God. 

But  how  shall  we  believe  for  this  ?  It  seems 
easy  for  some  to  believe.  The  Marys  who  sit  at 
the  Lord's  feet,  feeding  on  His  words,  find  the 
life  and  light  of  faith  in  His  beloved  presence. 
But  others,  like  Martha,  are  distracted  with  so 
many  things,  that  faith  seems  impossible.  And 
this  is  the  very  point  where  this  story  is  so  abun- 
dantly helpful.  Jesus  must  have  the  co5peration 
and  sympathy  of  some  one's  faith  before  this  mir- 
acle could  be  wrought — and  these  He  found,  not 
in  Mary,  as  we  might  have  expected,  but  in  Mar- 
tha, the  harassed  housewife. 

In  educating  Martha  to  this  stupendous  act  of 
faith,  (i)  The  Lord  gave  her  a  distinct  promise  : 
''Thy  brother  shall  rise  again."  (2)  He  drew 
her  attention  from  His  words  to  Himself,  who 
lay  beneath  and  behind  them  :  "  I  am  the  Resur- 
rection and  the  Life. ' '  (3)  He  forced  her  to  con- 
fess her  faith.  To  express  it  would  confirm  and 
increase  it:  "  Believest  thou  this?"  (4)  He 
compelled  her  to  act  on  the  faith  He  had  created, 
by  allowing  the  bystanders  to  remove  the  stone. 
All  her  soul  woke  up  as  she  remarked  these  prepa- 
rations for  her  brother's  resurrection.  She  be- 
lieved ;  and  in  her  faith  gave  the  Lord  the  pivot 
on  which  His  leverage  might  rest. 
79 


Except  a  grain  of  wheat  fall  into  the  earth  and 
die,  it  abideth  by  itself  alone.  John  xU.  24  (r.  v.). 

THE  East  came  to  the  cradle ;  the  West  to  the 
Cross.  Sunrise  becomes  the  Orient ;  sunset  the 
Occident  wave.  These  were  not  Hellenist  Jews, 
but  pure-blooded  Greeks,  whose  life  and  philoso- 
phy were  in  the  present,  in  as  much  joy  as  nature, 
art,  and  amusement  could  yield.  It  was  startling 
to  be  met  with  the  grave  announcement  of  death. 
But  how  wise  to  send  them  to  read  that  earliest 
divine  book  of  nature.  Hear  the  parable  of  the 
corn  of  wheat. 

Its  loneliness. — Before  sowing,  it  is  by  itself 
alone.  It  lies  on  the  barn  floor,  beside  myriads 
more,  but  there  is  no  vital  contact  between  it  and 
them.  They  are  just  so  many  isolated  units  :  as  for- 
eign to  each  other  as  the  stars,  between  which  mil- 
lions of  dividing  miles  intervene.  So  if  you 
save  your  life,  nursing  it  in  selfishness,  dread- 
ing and  avoiding  all  that  savors  of  self-denial 
and  self-giving,  you  will  be  utterly  and  drearily 
lonely. 

The  falling  into  the  ground  to  die. — If  we 
compare  ourselves  to  a  corn  of  wheat,  we  may 
say  that  the  seed -germ  cannot  bury  itself ;  but  it 
can  choose  burial.  It  can  be  willing  to  be  cast 
forth.  It  is  not  a  pleasant  experience,  for  the 
little  seed.  As  soon  as  it  finds  itself  entombed, 
it  is  seized  upon  by  chemical  agents,  which  pierce 
and  tear  its  delicate  waterproof  sheath,  and 
eat  their  way  to  its  vitals.  Death  is  no  child's- 
play. 

The  fruit-bearing. — Presently  the  rootlet  shoots 
downward,  the  tiny  frond  upward,  and,  almost 
without  knowing  it,  the  stalk  begins  to  blossom 
and  bear  fruit,  which,  with  every  sowing,  redupli- 
cates itself.  Such  may  your  life  become,  if  you 
will  let  God  have  His  way.  Via  Crucis,  via  lucis  : 
the  way  of  the  cross  is  the  way  of  light. 
80 


Thou  canst  not  follow  Me  now  ;    but  thou  shalt 
follow  afterward.  John  xiii.  jd,  J7  (R.  v.). 

HE  A  VEN  desired,— ^^  often  say  it.  When 
the  pressure  of  Hfe  seems  unbearable ;  when  the 
door  opens  just  wide  enough  to  admit  our  dearest, 
and  shuts  before  we  can  follow ;  when  we  want  to 
see  Him  whom  we  love — we  find  ourselves  using 
Peter's  words  again  :   ''  Why  not  now  ?  " 

Heaven  delayed. — ''  Thou  canst  not  follow  Me 
now."  The  emphasis  is  on  the  cannot.  It  is  as 
though  the  Master  said,  ''  The  hindrance  is  not 
in  some  arbitrary  edict  of  Divine  power,  but  in 
the  infinite  knowledge  and  wisdom  that  cannot 
err."  Peter  was  not  fit  to  go.  There  were  les- 
sons of  the  utmost  importance  waiting  for  him  to 
acquire  in  the  near  future.  He  must  learn  to 
know  himself,  and  Christ,  and  the  grace  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  When  he  proudly  vaunted  that  he 
would  lay  down  his  life  for  Jesus,  he  gave  incon- 
testable evidence  that  he  did  not  know  himself; 
and  there  was  every  reason  to  think  that  he  was 
similarly  deceived  when  he  supposed  that  he  was 
fit  to  quit  earth's  discipline,  and  enter  on  heaven's 
blessed  enjoyment.  He  must  exchange  his  own 
strivings  and  resolvings  for  the  gracious  indwell- 
ing of  the  Spirit  of  Pentecost ;  he  must  learn  the 
glorious  energy  of  the  indwelling  Saviour;  he 
must  be  girded  by  another,  and  carried  whither 
he  would  not;  and  only  then  would  the  time 
of  his  putting  off  of  the  tabernacle  of  the  body 
arrive. 

Heaven  guaranteed. — *'  Thou  shalt  follow  af- 
terward." There  could  be  no  doubt  about  it, 
since  Jesus  had  said  it ;  and  often,  in  after  days, 
these  words  must  have  been  as  a  cordial,  *'  Thou 
shalt  follow  afterward."  But  what  the  Master 
said  to  Peter  He  says  to  each  who  believes.  Thou 
shalt  follow  Me  afterward,  *'unto  fountains  of 
waters  of  life." 

81 


Believe  also  in  Me. 

yohn  xiv.  I. 
WERE  we  less  familiar  with  these  words,  we 
should  be  more  startled  by  their  immeasurable 
meaning.  One  who  seems  a  man  asks  all  men  to 
give  Him  precisely  the  same  faith  and  confidence 
that  they  give  to  God.  He  would  not  abate  His 
claims,  though  He  was  the  humblest  and  meekest 
of  men.  And  the  irresistible  conclusion  is  forced 
on  us,  that  He  was  and  knew  Himself  to  be  <'  God 
manifest  in  the  flesh." 

1 .  Faith  in  Jesus  is  the  cure  of  heart  trouble. 
— It  is  of  little  use  to  say,  ''  Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled,"  unless  you  can  add  '' Trust  Christ." 
Only  if  we  can  trust  can  we  be  still.  Only  if  we 
can  shift  the  responsibility  of  our  life  on  the  care 
of  our  never-failing  Redeemer  can  weeping  be  ex- 
changed for  radiant  and  unspeakable  joy. 

2.  Faith  in  Jesus  conducts  to  the  k?tow ledge  of 
God. — "  Believe  Me  that  I  am  in  the  Father,  and 
the  Father  in  Me."  Philip  said,  ''Show  us  the 
Father."  Jesus  answered,  ''Believe,  and  thou 
dost  behold."  The  world  says.  Seeing  is  believ- 
ing; Jesus  says.  Believing  is  seeing.  The  true 
way  to  know  God  is,  not  by  arguing  about  or 
seeking  to  verify  His  existence  by  intellectual  proc- 
esses, but  by  obeying  the  precepts  of  Jesus ; 
following  the  footsteps  of  Jesus ;  holding  fellow- 
ship with  Jesus. 

3.  Faith  in  Jesus  will  7nake  our  lives  the  chan- 
nel through  which  He  can  work. — "  He  that  be- 
lieveth  on  Me,  the  works,"  etc.  (vers.  12-14). 
The  Gospels  are  included  in  the  one  clause ;  the 
Acts  and  all  the  marvels  of  the  following  ages 
in  the  other.  Jesus  is  always  the  worker ;  and 
the  man  who  yields  himself  most  utterly  to 
Him  in  obedience  and  faith,  will  become  the 
channel  through  which  He  will  work  most 
mightily. 

82 


Abide  in  Me,  and  I  in  you, 

John  XV.  4. 

THE  unity  between  the  Lord  and  His  members 
is  beautifully  set  forth  in  this  exquisite  parable ; 
which  was  perhaps  suggested  by  the  swaying  of  a 
vine  in  the  evening  air,  as  they  essayed  to  go 
from  the  upper  room  toward  Gethsemane.  In 
certain  conservatories  the  pliant  branches  are 
trained  along  roof  or  wall  for  vast  distances ;  yet 
one  life  pervades  the  whole  plant,  from  the  rugged 
root  to  the  furthest  twig  and  leaf  and  cluster. 
Thus  there  is  one  holy  life  pervading  all  who  have 
belonged,  or  shall  belong,  to  Jesus.  They  live 
because  He  lives.     His  life  is  theirs. 

We  are  in  Christ  by  grace ;  but  we  need  to 
realize  and  accentuate  the  union  by  meditation 
and  prayer.  Waiting  more  absolutely  for  His 
impulses  in  intercession  and  action.  Being  silent 
for  Him  to  speak.  Drawing  on  Him  by  the  con- 
stant appeal  of  faith,  which  becomes  as  natural  as 
breathing.  Looking  away  to  Him  for  His  com- 
mendation. Seeking  only  His  verdict  on  what 
may  have  been  said  and  done.  So  closely  joined 
to  Him,  that  He  may  produce  in  and  through  us 
whatever  fruit  He  will  for  the  refreshment  of  men 
and  the  glory  of  God. 

We  are  in  Christ  forever,  so  far  as  our  standing 
is  concerned  ;  but  we  may  be  ''  taken  away, ' '  so  far 
as  our  opportunities  of  ministry  are  concerned. 
How  many  of  us  have  failed  to  be  what  He 
desired,  so  that  He  has  had  to  bestow  elsewhere 
the  luxury  of  ministering  to  Him  ! 

We  are  in  Christ,  not  because  we  hold  Him, 
but  because  He  holds  us ;  therefore  we  must  ex- 
pect the  Father's  pruning.  Yet  do  not  dread  the 
knife.  It  is  His  Word,  wielded  by  a  Father's 
hand ;  and  if  we  will  yield  to  the  golden  pruning- 
knife  of  the  Word,  we  shall  escape  the  iron  one 
of  sorrow. 

83 


In  that  day. 

yohn  xvi.  2j,  2b. 

THRICE  in  these  closing  words  the  Master 
refers  to  that  day  (see  John  xiv.  20).  Without 
doubt  He  refers  to  the  Day  of  Pentecost,  and  the 
era  it  would  introduce. 

The  Holy  Spirit  reveals  the  relation  between 
the  Father  a?id  the  So?i  (xiv.  20). — And  this  not 
as  a  matter  of  speculation  merely,  but  for  our  holy 
living.  The  model  of  our  union  with  Jesus  is  His 
union  with  the  Father.  As  He  is  in  His  Father 
in  perpetual  and  most  blessed  union,  so  are  we  to 
be  in  Him. 

The  Holy  Spirt  fs  presence  ajiswers  our  ques- 
tiofis. — "  Ye  shall  ask  Me  no  question  "  (xvi.  23, 
R.  v.,  marg.').  Whilst  the  Lord  was  with  them, 
they  were  constantly  breaking  in  on  Him  with 
their  questions:  "Lord,  are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  ''Wilt  Thou  at  this  time  restore  the 
kingdom?"  "When  shall  these  things  be?" 
This  is  always  the  symptom  of  the  earliest  stage 
of  the  religious  life — perpetual  questioning  and 
worrying.  But  when  the  Spirit  comes,  His  pres- 
ence is  the  sufficient  answer.  He  does  not  teach 
our  intellects  to  know  the  truth,  but  gives  the 
truth  to  our  hearts.  We  need  not  question,  be- 
cause we  see ;  we  possess ;  we  can  taste  and  handle 
for  ourselves. 

The  Holy  Spirif  s  indwelling  teaches  us  how  to 
pray. — "  In  that  day,  ye  shall  ask  in  My  name  " 
(xvi.  26).  To  pray  in  Christ's  name  is  to  let 
His  nature  pray  in  and  through  our  lips.  Of 
course  such  prayer  prevails.  The  one  condition 
of  successful  prayer  is  to  bring  yourself  into  a  line 
with  the  thoughts  of  God,  to  breathe  His  spirit,  to 
be  swayed  by  His  impulses  ;  this  is  only  possible 
through  the  gracious  operation  of  the  Spirit  of 
God.  Has  the  blessed  Day  of  Pentecost  broken 
upon  you  ?  Do  you  live  in  its  light  ?  Have  you 
received  all  it  was  meant  to  bring  you  ? 
84 


Father,  the  hour  is  come ;  glorify  Thy  Son,  that 
the  So?t  may  glorify  Thee.       John  xvH.  i  (r.  v.). 

IN  one  form  or  another  we  are  constantly  ask- 
ing the  Father  to  glorify  us.  Glorify  me,  O 
Father,  we  cry,  by  giving  me  the  largest  congre- 
gation in  the  town ;  by  commencing  a  great 
revival  in  my  mission,  by  increasing  my  spiritual 
power,  so  that  I  shall  be  greatly  sought  after.  Of 
course,  we  do  not  state  our  reasons  quite  so  con- 
cisely; but  this  is  really  what  we  mean.  And 
then  we  wonder  why  the  answer  tarries.  Is  it  not 
because  our  Father  dare  not  trust  us  with  glory  ? 
He  knows  that  we  would  become  proud  and  self- 
conscious  ;  that  we  would  ascribe  our  success  to 
the  strength  of  our  arm  and  the  swiftness  of  our 
foot.  Nothing  would  be  more  harmful  to  our 
Christian  growth.  But  when  we  desire  glory  only 
that  we  may  be  able  better  to  glorify  Jesus,  then 
there  will  be  no  stint  in  what  He  will  confer  on 
us.  Glory,  like  a  golden  river,  will  pour  into  our 
hearts  and  lives. 

Oh  for  this  absorbing  passion  for  the  glory  of 
Jesus !  To  be  able  to  pray  *'  Thy  kingdom 
come,"  without  reference  to  our  share  in  securing 
its  advent.  To  be  as  glad  when  another  scores  a 
great  success,  as  though  it  had  been  ourselves  who 
had  won  the  laurels.  To  pray  as  eagerly  for  the 
success  of  others  as  of  ourselves.  Here  is  an 
ideal  which  seems  inaccessible,  as  it  ridicules  all 
our  natural  attempts  to  win  it.  To  be  pleased  to 
suffer,  to  fail,  to  be  counted  nothing  and  nobody, 
if  only  our  dear  Lord  is  extolled,  exalted,  and 
made  very  high — is  this  possible  ? 

Do  you  choose  it?  Then  be  of  good  cheer. 
This  is  the  hunger  which  God  has  promised  to 
satisfy.  He  never  shows  you  your  lack  of  a  grace 
without  pledging  Himself  thereby  to  realize  it  for 
you.  Yes,  this  blessed  experience  shall  come 
even  to  you.  Voi^  shall  be  taught  the  blessed 
lesson  of  perfect  love. 

85 


Jesus  answer ed^  My  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world. 

John  xviii.  j6. 

WELL  might  Pilate  ask  if  Jesus  was  a  king. 
Thou  poor,  weary,  rejected  Nazarene,  art  Thou  a 
king?  A  strange  contrast,  surely,  to  the  Herod 
that  built  those  halls  of  judgment !  Thy  people, 
at  least,  fail  to  recognize  Thy  royalty !  But  Jesus 
did  not  abate  His  claims.  "Thou  sayest  that  I 
am,"  He  answered,  "a  king."  And  as  the 
ages  have  passed  they  have  substantiated  His 
claim. 

The  origin  of  His  kingdom. — ''My  kingdom 
is  not  of  this  world."  The  Ix>rd  did  not  mean, 
as  His  words  have  been  too  often  interpreted,  that 
His  kingdom  had  nothing  to  do  with  this  world  ; 
but  that  it  did  not  originate  here.  The  "of" 
means  otit  of.  Jesus  is  King,  not  by  earthly 
descent,  or  human  right,  but  by  the  purpose  and 
counsel  of  the  Father,  who  said,  "Thou  art  My 
Son ;  this  day  have  I  begotten  Thee  :  yet  will  I  set 
My  King  upon  My  holy  hill  of  Zion." 

The  method  of  its  promulgation.  It  is  not 
spread  by  armed  force.  His  servants  do  not 
fight.  They  are  priests  clad  in  the  white  robes 
of  immaculate  purity,  and  bearing  aloft  their 
banner  with  the  inscription,  "Blessed  are  the 
peacemakers,"  Like  their  Master,  they  bear 
witness  to  the  truth ;  and  as  they  do  so  those  who 
are  of  the  truth  are  attracted  to  the  Lord  as  steel 
filings  to  the  magnet. 

There  is  true  royalty  in  bearing  witness  to  the 
Truth. — Humbly  we  may  appropriate  our  Master's 
words :  to  this  end  were  we  born,  and  of  this 
cause  are  we  left  in  the  world,  that  in  every  act 
and  word  we  might  bear  witness  to  the  Truth.  As 
we  do  so,  we  manifest  a  royalty  which  is  not  of 
human  gift  or  descent,  but  which  has  been  com- 
municated by  the  reception  of  the  Christ-na- 
ture, through  the  regenerating  grace  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

86 


When  Jesus  had  received  the  vinegar,  He  said,  It 
is  finished.  John  xix.30. 

COMPARING  the  Gospels,  we  discover  that 
these  words  were  said ''with  a  loud  voice."  It 
was  the  shout  of  a  conqueror,  who  has  fought 
through^  long  and  terrible  day,  but  greets  victory 
as  evening  closes  in. 

Finished^  the  long  line  of  sacrificial  rite. — 
From  the  gates  of  Eden  the  blood  of  sacrifice 
had  begun  to  flow,  augmented  by  the  confluent 
streams  of  the  years.  From  that  moment,  how- 
ever, not  another  drop  need  be  shed.  The 
types  were  finished  now  that  the  Antitype  had 
been  realized. 

Finished,  His  fulfillment  of  prophecy. — How 
contradictory  some  had  seemed  !  Ancient  of 
Days,  yet  a  babe ;  the  Mighty  God.  yet  marred 
of  visage,  and  led  to  the  slaughter  \  Son  of  Man, 
yet  scion  of  David's  stock  ;  ruling  in  the  midst  of 
enemies,  yet  a  bruised  and  broken  Sufferer.  But 
all  of  them,  even  to  the  last  pathetic  intimation 
of  His  dying  thirst,  fulfilled. 

Finished,  His  7Jiortal  life. — Never  again  to  be 
weary,  hungered,  tempted,  buffeted,  or  to  bear 
the  contradiction  of  sinners.  Never  again  to 
sweat  the  bloody  sweat,  or  bear  the  accumulated 
faults  of  men.     Nevermore  to  die. 

Finished,  a  world^s  redemption. — He  had 
wrought  out  and  brought  in  a  perfect  salvation. 
The  world,  so  far  as  God  could  make  it  so,  was 
already  reconciled.     Sin  was  put  away. 

Finished,  the  perfect  obedience. — He  alone  of 
all  born  of  woman  was  able  to  say  that  there  was 
nothing  which  the  Father  had  asked  that  He  had 
not  given ;  nothing  that  the  Father  had  imposed 
that  He  had  not  gladly  borne.  He  had  finished 
the  work  given  Him  to  do. 
87 


Jesus  saith  unto  her,  Mary. 

John  XX.  lb. 

MANY  had  called  her  by  that  name.  She  had 
been  wont  to  hear  it  many  times  a  day  from  many 
lips ;  but  only  One  had  spoken  it  with  that  intona- 
tion. In  His  mouth  its  familiar  syllables  had  a 
sweetness  and  tenderness  which  lingered  in  her 
heart ;  as  the  fragrance  of  the  Roumanian  rose- 
valley  clings  for  many  a  day  to  the  clothes  of 
those  who  have  entered  it. 

Her  eyes  had  deceived  her.  Startled  by  the 
sudden  glad  expression  which  had  passed  over  the 
features  of  the  angels,  who  sat  sentry  in  the  sepul- 
chre, she  had  turned  herself  back  to  see  the  source 
from  which  the  radiance  had  gleamed ;  but 
even  with  that  hint  to  help  her,  she  had  failed 
to  recognize  her  Lord.  But  her  ear  could  not 
mistake;  the  voice  carried  immediate  recogni- 
tion. 

We  sigh  sometimes  for  "the  touch  of  a  van- 
ished hand,  and  the  sound  of  a  voice  that  is 
still";  but  we  shall  hear  those  voices  again. 
Our  mortal  body  is  to  be  fashioned  according  to 
the  body  of  Christ's  resurrection ;  and  evidently  in 
that  body  there  were  the  old  familiar  tones.  May 
we  not,  therefore,  certainly  infer  that  the  voices 
which  welcome  us  on  the  other  side  will  be  those 
that  hushed  us  with  their  lullabies  when  we 
were  babes :  asked  us  for  our  love  and  assured 
us  of  theirs  when  we  attained  maturity;  whis- 
pered their  dying  messages  in  our  ears,  and  sent 
us  their  Godspeed  as  we  went  down  into  the 
river. 

The  Master  knows  our  names,  and  calls  His  own 
followers  by  them.  There  is  one  response,  which 
He  waits  to  elicit — one  which  alone  will  satisfy 
Him ;  one  in  which  the  love  and  devotion  of  a 
life  may  be  summed  up.  Like  Mary,  let  us  turn 
and  say  to  Him  :  Rabboni  !  that  is,  Master  ! 
88 


That  disciple  therefore  whom  Jesus  loved  saith 
unto  Peter ^  It  is  the  Lord.       John  xxi.  y  (r.  v.). 

THIS  miracle  was  also  a  parable.  When  we 
go  fishing  apart  from  Jesus,  we  may  indeed  toil 
all  the  night  and  take  nothing.  But  when  through 
the  darkness  Jesus  comes,  and  speaks  to  us  across 
the  wave,  and  tells  us  where  to  let  down  the  nets ; 
when  we  are  in  blessed  partnership  with  Himself; 
when,  though  we  see  Him  not,  we  obey  His 
slightest  promptings — then  the  nets  are  filled  to 
their  uttermost. 

Those  who  are  loved,  love. — It  was  the  con- 
sciousness that  Jesus  loved  him  which  made  John 
the  Apostle  of  Love.  Love  casts  such  a  won- 
drous spell  over  its  objects,  that  they  begin  to  shine 
in  its  rays  and  reflect  them.  Nothing  will  make  a 
coal  glow  with  heat  but  to  plunge  it  into  the  heart 
of  the  fire.  Do  you  want  to  love  the  Lord  Jesus  ? 
— dwell  on  His  love  to  you. 

Those  who  love  Christ  see  Him. — Not  Peter, 
the  man  of  eager  action,  but  John,  the  man  of 
devoted  love,  saw  the  Master  amid  the  haze  that 
lay  on  the  lake  shore.  Love  will  penetrate  every 
disguise ;  will  detect  Him  by  the  slightest  sign ; 
will  strip  from  our  eyes  the  film  that  sense  and  sin 
draw  over  them.  If  you  loved  Him  more,  you 
would  see  His  hand  in  that  disappointment,  that 
crushing  sorrow. 

Those  who  seek  Christ  cannot  keep  it  to  them- 
selves.— They  must  tell  it  out  to  their  next  com- 
panion, with  beating  heart  and  thrilling  speech. 
John  said  unto  Peter,  It  is  the  Lord.  How  often 
has  the  affirmation  of  a  pensive,  quiet  heart  been 
the  torch  to  ignite  all  the  soul  of  another,  who  was 
more  fitted  to  execute  than  plan.  Is  not  this  what 
we  may  all  experience  as  we  draw  near  to  eter- 
nity? Shall  we  not  see  Jesus  standing  on  the 
shore,  with  preparations  beyond  all  thought,  to 
welcome  us  as  we  arrive  from  the  night  cruise  ? 
89 


Ve  shall  be  my  witnesses. 

Ads  i.  8  (R.  v.). 

HOW  different  this  function,  entrusted  to  the 
apostles,  to  that  assumed  by  the  self-styled  priests 
of  our  time,  who  claim  the  power  to  repeat  the 
sacrifice  of  Calvary,  and  to  absolve  the  penitent 
from  his  sins  !  The  Master  did  not  say  that 
His  followers  were  to  become  sacrificing  priests, 
but  witnesses  to  what  He  had  done  and  would 
do. 

Looking  to  Jesus  is  the  condition  of  witness- 
hearing. — How  else  can  we  bear  witness  of  Him  ? 
As  we  behold  Him  we  shall  reflect  Him  ;  and  as 
we  reflect  Him  we  shall  be  changed  into  the  same 
image  from  glory  to  glory,  as  by  the  Lord  the 
Spirit  (2  Cor.  iii.  18,  r.  v.).  It  will  not  involve 
strenuous  effort  to  witness  to  Jesus,  if  we  are  liv- 
ing in  fellowship  with  Him.  Light  is  self-reveal- 
ing. In  infinitesimal  touches  and  expressions  the 
light  we  are  catching  from  Him  will  gleam  forth, 
and  men  will  unconsciously  be  led  to  believe  in 
Him  who  has  made  us  what  we  are. 

Witness -bearing  must  spread  through  successive 
circles  of  influence — like  the  circling  wavelets  from 
a  stone  flung  into  the  midst  of  a  calm  mountain 
lake.  Some  think  they  could  witness  in  the  utter- 
most ends  of  the  earth,  but  they  neglect  the 
Jerusalem  of  the  home.  Those  who  begin  here 
will  be  led  almost  unconsciously  forward  to  the 
Judaea  of  their  relatives,  and  the  Samaria  of 
their  near  neighborhood,  and  so  to  further 
boundary. 

For  witnessing  we  have  supreme  power. — If 
even  your  testimony  is  demanded,  claim  the 
power  for  the  emergency.  It  is  certainly  at  hand, 
and  within  reach.  The  hand  of  faith,  the  opened 
heart,  may  surely  receive  not  a  power,  an  attribute 
merely,  but  the  Spirit,  whose  attribute  of  power 
certainly  accompanies  Him.  Not  //,  but  He. 
90 


He  hath  poured  forth  this,   which  ye  see  and 
hear.  Acts  U.jj  {r.v.). 

WHAT  a  sublime  commencement !  As  Jacob's 
heart  revived,  and  he  was  assured  that  Joseph  Hved 
when  he  saw  the  wagons  that  his  sons  had  sent, 
so  the  heart  of  the  Church  revived  when  the  Spirit 
came.  It  was  the  promised  sign  that  the  Master 
had  reached  the  Father's  throne,  and  was  fulfill- 
ing the  unforgotten  promise  that  He  would 
ask  the  Father  for  another  Paraclete  to  fill  his 
place,  and  abide  until  He  should  come  again  in 
glory. 

It  was  as  though,  when  the  Son  ascended  on 
high,  leading  captivity  captive.  He  passed  through 
all  heavens,  till  He  came  where  no  creature  had 
ever  come,  or  could  come.  There  He  prayed  the 
Father,  as  He  had  said.  It  was  as  though  He 
spoke  thus:  ''Father,  I  have  glorified  Thee  on 
the  earth ;  I  have  finished  the  work  which  Thou 
gavest  Me  to  do." 

And  the  Father  answered  :  ''  Thou  art  My  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased.  Ask  of 
Me,  .  .  .  and  I  will  give  Thee." 

It  was  as  if  He  said  :  ''Father,  I  ask  nothing 
for  Myself;  for  all  Thine  are  Mine,  and  Mine  are 
Thine.  But  for  others  I  ask  that  I  may  have  the 
power  of  giving  to  My  own  the  same  anointing 
and  power  which  Thou  gavest  Me  when  I  stood 
on  the  threshold  of  My  work.  I  was  then  filled 
with  the  Spirit ;  grant  unto  Me  the  power  to  fill 
the  hearts  of  all  who  believe  with  that  same  Spirit. 
It  was  in  the  power  of  that  Spirit  that  I  wrought, 
died,  and  rose ;  let  My  Church  be  quickened  and 
endued  with  the  same  sacred  power." 

And  it  pleased  the  Father  that  in  Him  all  the 
fullness  of  the  Godhead  should  dwell,  bodily.  And 
the  glorified  body  of  Jesus  became  the  reservoir 
of  the  Divine  fullness,  from  which  we  all  might 
receive. 

91 


Whom  they  laid  daily  at  the  door  of  the  tejnple 
which  is  called  Beautiful.  Ads  Hi.  2  (r.  v.). 

IS  not  this  thyself?  Thou  art  of  the  Israel  of 
God.  There  is  no  doubt  of  thy  name  being  en- 
rolled in  the  pedigree  of  elect  and  regenerate 
souls ;  but  thou  art  lame,  needing  to  be  carried 
by  the  strong  support  of  minister  and  friend; 
never  able  to  leap,  and  walk,  and  praise  God ; 
and  at  the  best  only  able  to  reach  the  outer  side 
of  the  Beautiful  Gate  that  conducts  to  the  richest, 
gladdest  life.  Through  that  gate  of  entire  con- 
secration there  come  snatches  of  holy  melody; 
glimpses  of  white-vestured  souls ;  visions  of  ideals 
of  life  which  thou  hast  not  attained  :  but  thou  art 
excluded,  condemned  to  live  on  the  alms  of 
those  that  enter.  How  great  the  pity!  Why 
shouldest  thou  not  have  the  very  best  that  God 
can  give  ? 

But  look  up  !  expect  to  receive  something  ; 
open  thine  ears  to  hear  and  thine  heart  to  receive 
immediately  strength,  just  where  thou  lackest  it 
most  sorely.  The  feet  and  ankle-bones  of  this 
helpless  cripple  only  needed  strength ;  they  were 
perfectly  formed,  but  paralyzed.  Similarly  thine 
ideals  of  Christian  living  are  true  and  accurate, 
but  thou  art  deficient  in  power.  Thou  must  re- 
ceive strength. 

But  this  strength  can  only  be  had  by  union 
with  the  risen  Lord.  His  name  (that  is.  His  na- 
ture) alone  can  make  thee  strong,  and  give  thee 
perfect  soundness  in  the  presence  of  those  who 
have  hitherto  only  pitied  thy  weakness.  Believe 
in  Him  !  All  that  have  ever  risen  up  to  obey  His 
lead  have  had  perfect  health  and  strength.  Open 
thine  heart  to  receive  them.  Claim  and  appro- 
priate the  power  and  grace  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
The  Spirit  of  Life  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus  shall 
make  thee  free  from  the  law  of  sin  and  death, 
from  weakness  and  failure. 
92 


They  were  all  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost, 

Acts  iv.  J/. 

THEY  had  been  filled  on  the  Day  of  Pente- 
cost, and  Peter  had  been  suddenly  and  mightily 
infilled  for  his  encounter  with  the  Sanhedrim 
(ver.  8) ;  but  here  again  they  were  all  privileged, 
whilst  in  the  attitude  of  prayer  and  praise,  to  be 
once  more  most  blessedly  infilled.  From  this  we 
gather  that  we  may  claim  repeated  fillings  of  the 
Holy  Spirit. 

But  let  us  remember  that  it  is  not  necessary  for 
the  place  to  be  shaken,  or  for  the  air  to  be  filled 
with  the  outward  phenomena  of  Pentecost  as  the 
necessary  condition  of  this  heavenly  gift.  Mr. 
Fletcher  reminds  us  that  the  Lord  may  be  pleased 
to  come  softly  to  our  help.  He  may  make  an  end 
of  our  corruption  by  helping  us  to  sink  gently  to 
unknown  depths  of  meekness.  Like  Naaman,  we 
are  full  of  prejudices.  We  expect  that  the  Pene- 
costal  gift  will  come  to  us  with  as  much  ado, 
pomp,  and  bustle,  as  the  Syrian  general  looked 
for.  But  the  blessed  Paraclete  often  disconcerts 
all  these  preconceived  notions.  When  we  are 
looking  for  the  hurricane.  He  comes  as  the  zephyr. 
When  we  are  expecting  the  torrent  to  pour  into 
and  fill  the  well.  He  fills  it  by  single  drops. 

But  the  results  will  always  be  the  same — great 
boldness  in  witness-bearing,  much  liberty  in  prayer 
and  praise  ;  great  grace  and  beauty  of  character ; 
self-denying  love  for  those  in  need ;  great  power 
through  union  with  the  risen  Lord.  If  the  second 
chapter  of  this  book  had  been  lost  from  the  first 
MS.  we  must  still  have  inferred  something 
like  the  Pentecost.  In  no  other  way  could  we 
have  accounted  for  the  marvellous  change  which 
passed  over  the  followers  of  Jesus,  delivering  them 
from  the  cowardice,  wrangling,  and  prejudices  of 
former  days.  Oh  for  a  similar  transforming  ex- 
perience for  us  all  ! 

93 


Thou  hast  not  lied  unto  men,  hut  unto  God. 

Ads  V.  4. 

^  AC  HAN,  Belshazzar,  and  Ananias,  met  the 
same  fate,  because  of  their  persistent  use  of  de- 
voted things.  When  once  we  have  devoted  aught 
to  God,  He  counts  it  as  His  own,  and  strikes 
down  the  hand  that  would  abase  it  to  common  and 
profane  use.  The  Lord  our  God  is  a  jealous  God  j 
He  will  brook  no  perversion  of  His  rights.  Be- 
ware that  you  take  back  nothing  which  you  have 
laid  on  God's  altar,  least  of  all  yourself. 

Each  gathering  of  believers  is  endowed  with 
mystic  and  extraordinary  importance,  because  the 
Lord,  through  the  Eternal  Spirit,  is  literally  pres- 
ent. The  true  President  is  not  the  minister,  how- 
ever distinguished  by  His  gift  or  grace,  but  the 
Divine  Spirit  Himself;  and  any  sin  against  the 
Church  is  really  against  Him.  It  is  this  Divine 
presence  that  invests  a  gathering  of  the  simplest, 
humblest  believers  with  such  unique  importance. 
It  is  this  which  gives  them  the  mysterious  binding 
and  loosing  power,  which  is  recognized  and  rati- 
fied in  heaven.  Behind  Peter  was  the  real  Head 
of  the  Church ;  and  so  with  every  faithful  minis- 
ter. Honor  the  Personality,  the  Presidency,  and 
Deity  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  as  set  forth  in  this  nar- 
rative. 

Dr.  Gordon  told  me  on  one  occasion  that  he 
had  in  his  church  a  man  who,  like  a  very  crooked 
stick,  obstructed  all  its  work.  He  spoke  to  him 
alone,  and  before  his  brethren;  but  to  no  pur- 
pose. Then  he  bethought  himself;  and  remem- 
bered that  not  himself,  nor  his  church  officials, 
was  the  true  Head  of  the  Church,  but  Christ  and 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  He  therefore 
handed  the  whole  matter  over  to  the  Divine 
Spirit,  as  the  Executive  of  the  Godhead.  In  a 
fortnight  this  man  had  left  the  city,  and  neces- 
sarily ceased  the  obstruction  in  which  he  had  per- 
sisted. 

94 


We  will  give  ourselves  continually  to  prayer. 

Acts  vi.  ^. 

IF  ever  there  was  a  sacred  work,  it  was  that  of 
caring  for  these  poor  widows ;  and  yet  the  apostles 
felt  that  even  such  duties  might  interfere  with  the 
continual  ministry  of  intercession.  No  doubt  they 
always  lived  in  the  atmosphere  and  spirit  of  prayer, 
but  they  rightly  felt  that  this  was  not  enough 
either  for  them  or  their  work.  So  they  sought  a 
division  of  labor,  that  while  some  specially  served 
tables  and  ministered  the  alms  of  the  church, 
others  might  be  set  free  for  steadfast  continuance 
in  prayer.  This  would  keep  the  communication 
with  the  King  on  the  throne  clear  and  fresh, 
would  draw  down  the  power  and  blessing  of  the 
heavenly  world,  and  be  the  means  of  procuring 
wisdom  and  strength  for  their  great  responsibili- 
ties. 

There  are  many  courses  of  usefulness  open  to 
each  of  us  in  this  world,  and  we  must  choose  the 
one,  not  only  most  suited  to  our  idiosyncrasies, 
but  in  which  we  can  best  serve  our  day  and  gen- 
eration. It  may  be  that  in  our  incessant  activities 
we  are  neglecting  the  one  method  by  which  we 
may  contribute  most  largely  to  the  coming  of  our 
Father's  kingdom.  Notice  that  word  give.  It  is 
as  though  the  Spirit  of  prayer  were  seeking  na- 
tures so  pure,  so  devoted,  that  without  hindrance 
He  might  form  Himself  into  them.  Give  your- 
self to  Him  for  this  ! 

'</;/  that  day,'^  said  our  Lord,  speaking  of  the 
Day  of  Pentecost,  ''ye  shall  ask  in  My  name." 
It  is  only  when  we  are  full  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that 
we  can  experience  the  true  power  to  plead  with 
God,  and  use  the  name  of  Christ  so  effectively 
as  to  receive  the  richest  blessings  for  ourselves 
and  others.  Much  prayer,  much  blessing ;  little 
prayer,  little  blessing;  no  prayer,  no  blessing. 
**  The  Word  of  God  increased." 
95 


Being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Acts  vii.  55. 

THE  blessed  characteristic  of  Stephen  lay  in 
his  being  perpetually  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  It 
is  said  of  others,  even  Peter,  that  they  were  filled, 
as  though  they  needed  some  special  and  over- 
mastering inducement  for  special  service.  But 
Stephen  is  more  than  once  described  as/?///(vi.  5), 
as  though  he  were  always  kept  brimming,  like  a 
lake  from  the  hills. 

Those  who  are  full  of  the  Holy  Spirit  are  al- 
ways looking  steadfastly  upwards. — They  look 
not  at  the  things  which  are  seen,  but  at  those 
which  are  not  seen.  Across  the  valleys,  they 
catch  sight  of  the  Delectable  Mountains,  rising 
like  the  Himalaya  above  the  plains  of  India. 
Whilst  others  look  around  for  help,  they  lift  up 
their  eyes  to  the  hills  whence  cometh  their  help ; 
and  to  them  heaven  stands  always  open. 

Those  who  are  full  of  the  Holy  Spirit  see  and 
are  transfigured  by  the  glory  of  God. — What  won- 
der that  those  who  sat  in  the  Council  beheld 
Stephen's  face,  as  it  had  been  the  face  of  an  an- 
gel. The  light  that  shone  there  was  not  as  when 
Jesus  was  transfigured — in  that  case,  the  light  of 
the  Shechinah  broke  out  from  within — but  here 
the  glory  of  God  shone  from  the  open  door  of 
Heaven.  So  the  sunrise  smites  the  highest 
peaks. 

Those  who  are  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost  see  the 
Lord  Jesus,  in  His  glory,  as  their  Priest. — It  is 
the  special  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  direct  the 
gaze  to  Jesus.  Those  w^ho  are  full  of  the  Spirit 
may  hardly  be  aware  of  His  gracious  presence, 
but  they  are  keenly  alive  to  their  Lord's.  The 
Spirit  takes  of  the  things  of  Jesus,  and  reveals 
them  to  the  loving  and  obedient ;  specially  those 
that  concern  His  priestly  work  on  the  cross  and 
in  heaven. 

96 


The  same  is  desert. 

Acts  via.  26  (R.  v.). 

DESERT  means  uninhabited.  It  seemed  a 
strange  providence  that  took  Philip  thither.  He 
had  been  chosen  to  the  honorable  office  of  deacon, 
and  there  was  probably  plenty  of  work  to  do  in 
connection  with  the  scattered  Church.  More- 
over, he  had  just  completed  a  most  successful 
mission  in  Samaria,  where  the  multitude  had  given 
heed  with  one  accord  to  the  things  he  had  spoken  ; 
but  now  he  was  suddenly  landed  in  these  lonely 
solitudes,  where  only  chance  travellers  could  be 
encountered.  Did  he  not  count  it  strange,  and 
wish  to  get  home  to  his  four  little  daughters 
(Acts  xxi.  9)  ? 

There  are  many  deserts  in  life  !  The  solitude 
of  a  new  country,  in  which  you  do  not  know  the 
language.  The  solitude  of  a  sick-chamber,  in 
which  the  earnest  worker  suddenly  discovers  the 
limitations  of  physical  weakness.  The  solitude 
of  suspicion  and  dislike,  which  contrast  strangely 
with  some  large  and  devoted  circle.  Thither  God 
brings  us  not  infrequently.  No  flower  can  thrive 
in  unbroken  light. 

But  in  every  solitude,  if  we  wait  patiently  on 
the  Lord,  there  are  opportunities  of  service.  There 
is  always  some  inquiring  soul  in  need  of  the  pre- 
cise help  we  can  give.  There  is  an  old  story  of 
some  monks  to  whom  the  Book  of  Revelation  w^as 
being  read.  At  the  end  each  was  asked  to  choose 
the  promise  he  loved  best.  One  said  I  will  take 
this,  ''God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears."  Another 
chose,  ''  To  him  that  overcometh  I  wdll  give  to  sit 
on  My  throne."  The  third  replied,  ''I  would 
choose,  'His  servants  shall  serve  Him.'"  This 
latter  was  Thomas  a  Kempis,  who  afterward  wrote 
"The  Imitation." 

«« Not  caring  how  to  serve  Thee  much, 
But  to  please  Thee  perfectly." 

97 


The  Chu7'ch  had  peace ^  being  edified ;  and  .  .  . 
was  multiplied.  Acts  ix.  j/  (r.  v.). 

THE  CHURCH  grew  not  simply  by  addition, 
but  by  multiplication.  Three  added  to  three  make 
six  ;  three  multiplied  by  three,  nine.  That  is  the 
Pentecostal  ratio  of  increase.  These  are  the  con- 
ditions of  Church  growth  :  — 

First,  there  must  be  peace. — Let  us  endeavor 
to  keep  the  unity  of  the  Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace. 
As  far  as  it  lies  in  our  power,  let  each  of  us  live 
peaceably  with  all  men.  Let  all  bitterness,  and 
wrath,  and  anger,  and  clamor,  and  railing,  be  put 
away  out  of  our  hearts,  with  all  malice,  and  let 
us  be  kind  one  to  another,  tender-hearted,  and 
imitating  God  the  great  Peacemaker. 

Next,  the  Church  must  be  edified. — We  must 
build  ourselves  up  on  our  most  holy  faith.  And, 
indeed,  such  growth  in  grace  and  the  knowledge 
of  God  is  almost  inevitable  where  the  Holy  Ghost 
breaks  up  the  reign  of  apathy  and  stagnation. 
When  its  foundations  are  deeply  laid  in  righteous- 
ness and  peace,  the  City  of  God  arises  into  the 
pure  air. 

Moreover,  the  members  of  such  a  Christian 
community  must  walk  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord. 
To  walk  means  the  daily  plodding,  routine  life — 
full  of  commonplaces,  somewhat  prosaic — but  al- 
ways ruled  by  the  fear  of  grieving  the  heart  that 
was  pierced  on  Calvary.  Lastly,  we  must  walk 
in  the  comfort  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  or,  as  the  words 
might  be  rendered,  in  the  paracletis?n  of  the 
Paraclete.  The  Holy  Spirit  is  our  Advocate, 
Teacher,  Guide ;  and  we  should  habitually  dwell 
in  His  radiant  and  helpful  environment.  What 
a  difference  there  is  between  sea  weeds  and 
sea  flowers  expanding  in  their  rock-surrounded 
aquariums,  and  the  same  when  taken  into  com- 
mon air  !  Such  is  the  contrast  wrought  by  the 
Spirit. 

98 


He  lodgeth  with  one  Simony  a  tanner. 

Acts  X.  6. 

THIS  lodging  must  have  been  somewhat  dis- 
tasteful to  the  apostle ;  not  only  because  of  its  in- 
salubrious odors,  but  because  of  the  association 
with  death  that  rendered  him  liable  to  the  cere- 
monial pollution  which  a  religious  Jew,  as  Peter 
was,  peculiarly  dreaded.  Probably  he  was  only 
driven  to  it  by  the  sternest  necessity.  But  was  it 
not  remarkable  that  he  who  had  been  the  chief 
apostle  of  the  Church,  and  who  had  but  recently 
come  from  a  most  successful  tour,  should  suddenly 
be  isolated  from  all  his  happy  and  holy  associa- 
tions, and  be  stranded  for  many  days  in  the  tan- 
ner's house  (ix.  43)  ? 

Yet  such  dealings  on  the  part  of  the  Lord  with 
His  servant  are  easy  of  explanation.  We  are  all 
apt  to  substitute  work  for  God  instead  of  com- 
munion with  Him.  We  become  strong  in  our 
own  strength  ;  elated  with  success ;  puffed  up  by 
the  adulation  of  our  friends.  It  is  needful,  there- 
fore, that  we  be  withdrawn  from  the  madding  crowd 
and  the  career  of  unbroken  prosperity;  that  the 
glare  of  the  sun  should  be  tempered,  and  confi: 
dence  in  ourselves  be  brought  low.  There  is  only 
one  resort.  To  be  hidden  in  the  quiver  ]  to  be- 
come dependent  on  the  widow-woman  of  Zare- 
phath ;  to  spend  forty  years  in  the  desert,  till  the 
passionate  impulses  of  our  own  life  subside ;  to  go 
apart  into  Arabia;  to  spend  the  slowly-moving 
weeks  in  the  tanner's  house. 

Whilst  Peter  waited,  he  maintained  his  habits 
of  prayer ;  left  his  heart  open  to  the  impressions 
and  teachings  of  the  Holy  Spirit ;  awaited  the 
next  movements  of  the  cloudy  pillar ;  set  himself 
to  acquire  lessons  which,  though  subversive  of  his 
past  experience,  reacted  on  his  whole  after-life; 
and  from  his  retirement  went  forth  to  unlock  a 
new  era. 

99 


He  was  a  good  man. 

Acts  xi.  34. 

THIS  is  the  Holy  Spirit's  verdict  on  the  char- 
acter and  Ufe  of  Barnabas.  Very  different  to  the 
magniloquent  inscriptions  on  the  tombs  of  war- 
riors and  statesmen ;  but  it  were  better  to  deserve 
this  at  the  lips  of  the  Master  than  to  have  the 
longest  list  of  titles  ever  appended  to  a  mortal's 
name.  For  a  good  man  like  this  some  would  even 
dare  to  die.  The  characteristics  of  this  good 
man  were  these  : — 

He  could  see  the  good  in  movements  outside  his 
own  church-order. — The  Church  at  Antioch  orig- 
inated, as  this  paragraph  proves,  in  the  preaching 
of  a  number  of  unknown,  unordained  refugees, 
who  were  fleeing  from  the  iron  hand  of  persecu- 
tion. All  we  know  of  them  is  that  they  were  men 
of  Cyprus  and  Cyrene.  They  had  broken  through 
the  barrier  of  the  ages  by  preaching  to  the  Gen- 
tiles, great  numbers  of  whom  had  been  saved. 
The  Church  in  Jerusalem  was  somewhat  suspicious 
of  this  new  departure,  and  sent  Barnabas  to  re- 
port ;  but  when  he  came  he  was  forthwith  con- 
vinced of  its  genuineness,  saw  the  evidence  of  the 
hand  of  the  Lord,  and  was  glad.  No  jealousy, 
nor  narrow  bigotry,  nor  suspicion,  warped  his 
judgment. 

He  was  willing  that  another  should  share  with 
himself  the  joys  of  harvest. — He  went  off  to  Tar- 
sus to  seek  his  old  acquaintance,  and  perhaps  fel- 
low-student, Paul,  and  for  a  whole  year  the  two 
wrought  side  by  side  in  loving  fellowship,  and 
taught  much  people. 

He  was  eager  that  people  should  be  added  to  the 
Lord. — Too  often  good  men  seek  a  following  for 
themselves,  and  rejoice  in  those  who  are  added  to 
their  church  or  organization.  This  is  not  the  no- 
blest style  of  work.  It  is  better  far  to  imitate  the 
Baptist,  who  was  content  to  be  the  Bridegroom's 
friend. 

100 


The  Iron  Gate. 

Ads  xii.  10. 

THERE  are  iron  gates  before  most  of  us.  We 
are  not  specially  anxious  about  the  first  or  second 
ward,  but  ah,  that  iron  gate  !  The  iron  gate  of 
supreme  difficulty;  of  a  parent's  prohibition 
against  entering  the  mission-field ;  of  some  ob- 
stinate circumstance  which  seems  to  forbid  the 
execution  of  our  plans ;  of  some  barred  and  locked 
prohibition  ;  of  death  at  the  end  of  all.  It  may 
be  that  in  his  strange  bewilderment,  between 
waking  and  sleeping,  Peter  anticipated  this  iron 
gate  with  a  good  deal  of  dread.  That  at  least 
would  bar  his  progress ;  but  lo,  it  opened  of  its 
own  accord  !  So  shall  it  be  with  many  of  the 
evils  that  we  anticipate. 

Not  before  we  come  to  them,  but  at  the  mo- 
ment of  reaching  them ;  when  heart  and  flesh 
threaten  to  fail — in  the  dim  light  we  shall  find 
them  standing  open,  set  back  for  us  to  pass.  The 
tram-line  is  not  cleared  from  end  to  end  before 
the  tram  starts.  Were  the  driver  to  wait  for  this, 
he  would  never  start  at  all.  But  as  he  comes  to 
each  van,  or  drag,  or  carriage,  it  moves,  and  al- 
lows him  a  free  course ;  or,  if  it  seems  dilatory, 
his  whistle  hastens  it.  Thus,  when  we  arise  to 
follow  the  angel  of  God's  purpose,  who  has  sud- 
denly entered  the  dark  cell  of  our  life,  we  shall 
discover  that  apparently  insuperable  difficulties, 
which  we  have  long  dreaded,  shall  open  to  us,  and 
allow  us  to  pass ;  when  we  come  to  the  object  we 
have  dreaded  most,  we  shall  find  it  gone. 

Let  there  be  plenty  of  prayer,  ''prayer  without 
ceasing."  Let  there  be  prompt  obedience  to  the 
angel's  touch  and  summons ;  the  willingness  to 
gird  the  relaxed  loins,  and  follow ;  and  as  you  go 
through  life,  you  will  find  yourself  escorted  by  an 
invisible  Companion,  who  holds  the  key  to  all 
doors. 

101 


Separate  Me  Bariiabas  and  ^ul  for  the  work 
whereunto  I  have  called  them.  Acts  xUL  2. 

THE  Holy  Spirit,  as  the  representative  of  the 
ascended  Lord,  is  supreme  in  the  Church.  It  is 
His  sovereign  voice  that  summons  His  chosen  work- 
ers to  undertake  missionary  or  home  enterprise. 
Dr.  Ryland,  who  at  first  opposed  Carey's  idea  of 
going  to  India,  said  afterward,  "I  believe  God 
Himself  infused  into  the  mind  of  Carey  that  so- 
licitude for  the  salvation  of  the  heathen  which 
cannot  be  fairly  traced  to  any  other  source."  And 
the  same  is  true  of  all  missionaries.  The  true 
call  is  always  of  the  Divine  Spirit.  Whom  He 
wills  to  call,  He  calls.  Whom  He  calls,  He  sep- 
arates. Whom  He  separates,  He  endows  and  sends 
forth. 

But,  Divine  and  absolute  though  the  selection 
is,  the  Spirit  seeks  the  concurrence  of  the  Church. 
It  was  in  answer  to  the  Church's  prayer  for  direc- 
tion that  the  Spirit  designated  Barnabas  and  Saul 
for  the  great  work  of  world-evangelization ;  and 
it  was  when  the  Church  had  fasted  and  prayed, 
and  had  offered  these  two  to  God  as  their  wave- 
offering,  that  they  were  sent  forth  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Thus  the  Spirit  and  the  Bride  cooper- 
ate. 

In  determining  whether  you  have  been  called  by 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  be  a  missionary,  you  must  cer- 
tainly call  in  the  advice  of  Christian  friends,  and 
specially  of  the  church  with  which  you  worship. 
If  the  Spirit  of  God  is  in  you  and  them,  they  will 
ratify  the  movements  of  your  heart.  It  is  right, 
too,  to  consider  whether  you  have  been  specially 
gifted  and  qualified  for  the  work.  In  this  also, 
the  advice  of  the  Church  is  most  valuable.  Of 
course,  the  Church  herself  must  fast,  /.  ^.,  be  sep- 
arate from  known  evil  and  indulgence,  that  she 
may  hear  God's  voice,  and  be  able  to  advise  her 
children. 

102 


Granting  signs  and  wonders  to  be  done  by  their 
hands.  Ads  xiv.  J  (r.  v.). 

THERE  is  no  source  of  encouragement  more 
fruitful  of  help  than  the  co-witness  and  co-work- 
ing of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Those  who  are  filled 
with  the  Spirit  are  called  into  communion,  /.  e.y 
partnership,  with  Him  in  His  work.  Whilst 
they  work  from  the  outside.  He  works  from 
within ;  whilst  they  sow  the  seed.  He  waters  it 
abundantly.  We  must  be  very  careful  to  be  such 
in  character  and  teaching  that  He  may  cooperate 
with  us.  Our  hands  must  be  very  clean,  if  He, 
with  an  infinite  condescension,  is  to  grant  signs 
and  wonders  to  be  wrought  by  them.  But  when 
we  work  with  Him,  and  He  with  us,  the  results 
are  beyond  measure  astonishing,  and  His  alone. 

"We  are  now  seven  years  in  this  land,"  wrote 
one  of  Gossner's  missionaries  from  the  land  of 
the  Kohls  in  India;  ''but  through  these  long 
years  it  was  but  trial  of  our  patience  and  endur- 
ance. .  .  .  Everything  seemed  to  be  in  vain, 
and  many  said  the  mission  was  useless.  Then 
the  Lord  Himself  kindled  a  fire  before  our  eyes  ; 
and  it  seized  not  only  single  souls,  but  spread 
from  village  to  village ;  and  from  every  side  the 
question  was  borne  to  us.  What  shall  we  do? 
How  shall  we  be  saved  ?  And  I  thought  it  was 
no  more  a  heathen  land  I  was  in,  but  a  Christian, 
and  at  home." 

Deus  habet  horas  et  moras,  says  the  old  prov- 
erb. God  has  His  seasons  and  delays.  We  do 
not  at  once  see  the  result  of  our  sowings,  toils, 
and  tears ;  but  we  are  conscious  that  our  work  is 
with  our  God — we  know  that  we  have  our  peti- 
tions, and  we  rejoice  in  hope.  We  must  go  on 
uttering  *'the  word  of  His  grace" — the  grace 
that  chooses  such  rebels  to  be  His  children ;  that 
cleanses  them  from  sin ;  that  restores  and  keeps 
and  sanctifies. 

103 


They  rehearsed. 

Ads  XV.  4f  12  (R.  v.). 

THERE  is  a  difference  between  these  two  asser- 
tions. They  are  in  exquisite  harmony,  but  each 
contributes  a  different  note.  In  the  first  we  have 
the  cooperation  of  the  Holy  Spirit  with  every 
faithful  worker  whom  He  sends  forth ;  so  that, 
while  the  servant  speaks  to  the  outward  ear,  the 
Lord  simultaneously  addresses  the  heart.  In  the 
second,  we  have  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
wrought  through  a  yielded  life  which  has  become 
His  pure  channel  and  mouth-piece.  This  is  His 
twofold  ministry. 

His  witness  with  us. — As  we  speak  of  Jesus 
crucified,  risen,  ascended,  the  blessed  Spirit  con- 
victs men  of  sin,  righteousness,  and  judgment. 
To  every  faithful  word  of  testimony  there  is  a 
deep  resonant  affirmation  from  this  hidden  but 
mighty  Cooperant.  If  we  say,  *' Behold  the 
Lamb  of  God  !  "  He  adds,  ''  He  takes  away  the 
sin  of  the  world."  If  we  say,  ''He  died  in 
weakness,"  the  Spirit  adds,  ''He  was  raised  in 
power."  If  we  say,  "Repent  and  believe  the 
Gospel,"  He  adds,  "Now  is  the  accepted  time. 
The  Holy  Ghost  saith  To-day."  If  the  Bride 
says  Come,  the  Spirit  joins  His  voice  to  hers. 

Jfis  witness  through  us. — "  The  word  which 
ye  hear,"  said  our  Lord,  "is  not  Mine,  but  the 
Father's  who  sent  Me."  And  that  which  was 
His  glory  may  be  ours  also.  We  speak  not  of 
ourselves.  This  is  the  secret  of  a  fruitful  life — to 
be  the  yielded  channel ;  the  cleansed  vessel ;  the 
bugle  at  the  castle  gate  on  which  the  King  may 
sound  His  summons ;  the  lute  on  whose  strings 
the  Divine  hand  may  play.  Oh,  be  sure  that  the 
most  lasting  Avork  in  this  world  is  only  possible 
when  we  can  say  with  Paul  that  we  will  not  boast 
of  anything  save  what  Christ  has  wrought  through 
us  to  make  men  obedient  to  the  Gospel. 
104  . 


A    certain    woman     named   Lydia.  .  .  .     The 
Keeper  of  the  prison.  Acts  xvi.  14,  21. 

THESE  are  typical  cases,  put  here  in  juxtapo- 
sition for  the  teaching  and  comfort  of  believers  in 
every  age.  Each  of  them  needed  Christ,  and 
each  was  brought  into  His  true  light ;  but  each 
came  in  a  different  way.  Lydia' s  heart  opened 
as  a  flower  beneath  the  touch  of  the  sun,  so  gradu- 
ally and  imperceptibly  that  it  was  impossible  to 
say  the  precise  moment  of  her  new  life.  The 
jailer  came  to  Christ  suddenly,  startHngly,  amid 
the  crash  of  an  earthquake.  The  one  was  drawn 
by  love;  the  other  driven  by  fear.  A  distin- 
guished missionary  says,  ''The  Lord  awakened 
me  with  a  kiss" — it  was  so  that  Lydia' s  heart 
was  w^on.  Another  tells  us  that  the  Lord  sprang 
on  him  like  a  lion — it  was  thus  with  the  jailer. 

Lydia. — Do  not  always  be  looking  out  for  signs 
and  manifestations ;  for  marked  experiences.  We 
do  not  notice  the  lines  of  longitude  and  latitude 
as  we  cross  the  ocean  of  life.  Without  knowing 
it,  your  character  may  be  in  the  process  of  trans- 
figuration. By  insensible  gradations  the  work  of 
God  may  be  proceeding  in  your  heart.  The  tide 
is  rising  daily  by  tiny  wavelets  that  appear  to  re- 
cede as  fast  as  they  advance.  Do  not  measure 
progress  by  experience  ;  only  be  yielded  to  God, 
and  let  Him  do  His  will. 

The  Jailer. — Do  not  undervalue  the  influence 
of  fear.  There  are  some  natures  that  never  will 
be  awakened  unless  they  are  startled  by  being 
brought  face  to  face  with  the  consequences  of 
sin.  If  men  will  not  come  by  the  highest  mo- 
tives, be  thankful  that  they  come  by  any.  Re- 
member it  is  not  belief  about  Christ,  about  His 
death  or  resurrection,  but  trust  in  Him  as  a  liv- 
ing Person,  that  saves  from  the  power  and  penalty 
of  sin.  ''  Believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  He 
is  a  living  Person.  Trust  Him  now, 
105 


//  behoved  the  Christ  to  suffer. 

Acts  xvii.  J  (R.  v.). 

THIS  is  what  our  Lord  was  constantly  insist- 
ing upon  during  the  closing  days  of  His  earthly 
ministry.  ''Behoved  it  not,"  He  asked,  "the 
Christ  to  suffer  these  things,  and  to  enter  into  His 
glory?"  The  Jewish  nation  rejected  Him  be- 
cause His  conception  of  Messianic  power  was 
so  foreign  to  theirs;  but  in  doing  so,  doomed 
themselves  to  rejection  from  the  purposes  of  God, 
at  least  during  the  present  dispensation. 

It  behoved  Him,  that  He  might  be  a  merciful 
and  faithful  High  Priest.  How  could  He  have 
sympathized  with  the  anguish  of  human  hearts,  if 
He  had  not  drunk  deeply  of  the  cup  of  sorrow  ? 
How  could  He  have  led  His  flock  through  the 
thorny  brake,  if  He  had  not  gone  to  and  fro  with 
His  bare  feet  ?  In  that  He  hath  suffered.  He  is 
able  to  succor. 

It  behoved  Him,  that  He  might  be  the  sacrifice 
for  sin.  The  conscience  demands  that  forgive- 
ness should  be  consistent  with  righteousness.  It 
was  necessary,  therefore,  if  Jesus  was  to  bring  us 
forgiveness,  that  He  should  be  prepared  to  make 
reparation  and  atonement  for  sin.  He  must  shed 
His  blood,  that  He  may  cleanse  His  people  from 
their  sins  :  He  must  be  willing  to  be  their  scape- 
goat; He  must  offer  Himself  without  spot  to 
God,  that  He  may  cleanse  our  consciences  from 
dead  works  to  serve  the  living  God. 

It  behoved  Him,  that  He  might  reign  forever- 
more.  It  is  a  fundamental  principle  in  God's 
universe,  that  suffering,  humbly  and  resignedly 
borne,  leads  to  royalty  and  reigning.  He  who 
can  stoop  most  profoundly  can  rise  to  reign  most 
gloriously.  As  is  the  descent,  so  is  the  ascent. 
In  proportion  to  the  submission  to  take  the  form 
of  a  servant  is  the  exaltation  to  the  right  hand  of 
power, 

106 


A  certain  Jew  named  Aquila^  .  .   .  with  his  wife 
Friscilla.  Acts  xviii,  2. 

IT  is  a  striking  spectacle  to  see  Paul,  on  his 
entrance  to  Corinth,  with  which  his  name  was  to 
be  so  remarkably  associated,  looking  around, 
probably  in  the  Jewish  quarter,  for  manual  em- 
ployment, that  he  might  be  sure  of  his  bread. 
Similarity  of  craft  introduced  him  to  Aquila  and 
his  wife  Priscilla,  who  had  been  recently  ex- 
pelled from  Rome  by  the  imperial  edict.  At 
this  time  they  were  in  unbelief,  but  were  ap- 
parently converted  by  the  words  the  apostle  ad- 
dressed to  them  as  they  sat  together  over  their 
daily  toil. 

How  eager  Paul  was,  not  only  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  the  crowds  that  thronged  the  gay  and 
sunny  streets  of  Corinth,  but  to  win  individual 
souls  for  his  Master's  kingdom.  Some  are  eager 
enough  in  this  holy  quest,  when  they  occupy  the 
pulpit,  and  are  conscious  of  many  eyes  being 
fixed  upon  them;  but  they  are  careless  of  the 
individual  souls  cast  in  their  way.  Not  so  was  it 
with  the  Master,  who  went  out  of  His  way  to  find 
one  Samaritan  woman,  and  stopped  beneath  the 
tree  to  call  down  one  publican.  Not  so  was  it 
with  Philip,  who  spoke  to  the  eunuch  as  eagerly 
as  to  Samaria.  Not  so  was  it  with  the  apostle, 
who  was  as  intense  in  his  endeavors  for  a  jailer,  a 
Lydia,  a  Timothy,  as  for  the  crowds  that  were 
going  to  destruction. 

Is  not  this  God's  secret  test?  If  we  are  not 
careful  about  the  ones  and  twos,  He  will  not  use 
us  to  the  crowds.  Indeed,  it  is  the  experience 
we  obtain  in  dealing  with  individuals  that 
equips  us  for  multitudes.  The  way  in  which 
the  kingdom  of  God  comes  ordinarily  is, 
''One  by  one."  How  much  might  be  done  if 
each  Christian  workman  would  seek  to  win  his 
neighbor ! 

107 


Did  ye  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  when  ye  believed  ? 

Ads  xix.  2  (R.  v.). 

THIS  was  Paul's  first  question  of  these  twelve 
disciples.  He  knew  perfectly  well  that  they  could 
not  have  believed  without  the  special  grace  of  the 
Holy  Spirit ;  but  now  he  asked  if  at  the  moment 
of  regeneration  and  conversion  they  received  Him. 
Obviously,  his  question  implied  his  belief  that 
there  was  a  special  enduement  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  for  a  consecrated  and  useful  life  over  and 
above  His  initial  work  on  the  soul. 

It  is  a  question  which  is  in  these  words  ad- 
dressed to  every  Christian  reader.  You  have  be- 
lieved in  Christ  through  the  ministry  of  the  Spirit ; 
but  did  you  at  that  or  any  subsequent  moment 
receive  the  infilling  and  unction  of  the  Pentecostal 
Spirit  ?  You  may  not  be  able  to  point  to  some 
marked  manifestation ;  but  are  you  conscious  of 
those  fruits  which  are  the  invariable  accompani- 
ments of  that  supreme  gift?  If  not,  learn  to 
receive,  and  receive  now. 

In  how  many  instances  might  this  inquiry  be 
met  by  the  reply  which  the  apostle  received  : 
"Nay,  we  did  not  so  much  as  hear  whether  the 
Holy  Ghost  was  given."  John  the  Baptist  clearly 
foretold  that  Christ  would  baptize  with  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  with  fire ;  but  in  his  days  Pentecost 
was  still  more  than  three  years  away,  and  these, 
His  disciples,  had  never  heard  that  the  last  days 
foretold  by  God  had  already  been  inaugurated. 
Alas  that  it  should  be  possible  after  these  centuries 
for  many  Christian  people  to  be  in  ignorance  of 
the  special  glory  and  characteristic  of  this  age, 
and  be  content  to  live  without  seeking  for  them- 
selves all  that  Pentecost  means  !  Ephesus  was 
moved  in  every  avenue  of  her  corporate  life, 
and  the  worship  of  Diana  imperilled — and  all 
because  twelve  men  received  the  fullness  of  the 
Spirit. 

108 


Take  heed  unto  yourselves,  and  to  all  the  flock. 

Acts  XX.  2S  (R.  v.). 

THERE  are  many  lessons  in  this  verse. 

(i)  The  Christian  worker  must  not  neglect 
his  own  soul.  He  must  take  heed  to  himself,  as 
well  as  to  the  flock.  Our  temptation  is  to  neglect 
our  close  walk  with  God  in  our  eagerness  to  save 
others. 

(2)  The  overseer,  elder,  or  bishop,  is  not  set 
over  the  flock,  but  is  in  it.  Note  the  force  of  the 
Greek,  as  given  in  r.  v.  :  the  flock  in  the  which 
they  are  made  bishops.  So  to  the  end  of  life  the 
most  eminent  of  God's  servants  must  remember 
that  he  is  but  a  saved  sinner,  needing  the  blood 
and  righteousness  of  Christ  as  much  as  the  weakest 
of  his  flock ;  and  he  also  must  lie  down  in  green 
pastures,  and  be  led  beside  still  waters. 

(3)  The  office  of  the  minister  is  given  by  the 
Holy  Ghost.  It  is  He  who  lays  on  him  the  bur- 
den of  souls,  and  equips  him  for  his  work.  He, 
too,  is  willing  to  direct  and  use.  How  awful  and 
solemn  the  responsibility  !  Woe  be  to  us  if  we 
exercise  our  ministry  only  for  the  eye  and  ear  of 
our  fellow-men  ! 

(4)  Notice  that  the  Church  is  distinctly  as- 
serted to  be  God's.  ''  Feed  the  Church  of  God." 
We  are  His  people  and  the  sheep  of  His  pasture. 
His  by  choice,  by  purchase,  by  the  drawing  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  We  must  get  a  right  understanding 
of  this  doctrine  of  the  Church,  that  she  had  been 
taken  out  of  the  world  to  be  God's  peculiar  pos- 
session and  delight. 

(5)  The  purchase  money  of  the  Church  is  here 
said  to  be  God's  own  blood.  It  is  a  remarkable 
expression.  It  stands  alone  in  the  Word  of  God, 
but  brings  out  very  distinctly  the  thought  that  the 
entire  Godhead  achieved  man's  redemption  in  the 
off"ering  of  the  Cross.  We  are  dear  to  God,  and 
must  give  Him  the  benefit  of  His  great  expendi- 
ture ! 

109 


And  kneeling  down  on  the  beach,  we  prayed,  and 
bade  each  other  farewell.  Acts  xxi.  j  (r.  v.). 

IT  is  thus  that  Christians  say  farewell.  On 
their  knees,  within  sound  of  the  breaking  wavelets, 
men,  women,  and  children,  gathered  in  a  weeping 
circle  around  the  servant  of  God,  who  had  been 
to  so  many  of  them  the  apostle  of  a  new  life. 
There  is  no  attitude  more  befitting  than  this,  at 
times  when  the  heart-strings  are  strained  to  crack- 
ing, and  it  seems  as  though  the  sacrifice  were  too 
great  for  trembling  hands  to  place  on  the  altar  of 
God. 

But  it  is  thus  that  Christians  never  say  farewell. 
The  relationship  which  is  founded  in  the  love  of 
God  cannot  be  broken.  Of  such  friendship  there  is 
no  past  or  future,  but  always  a  blessed  present 
tense.  What  has  been,  is,  and  will  be.  And  as 
severed  hearts  meet  in  prayer,  though  the  bodies 
may  be  divided  by  hundreds  of  miles  of  sea  and 
land,  there  is  no  separation.  They  are  one  in  the 
Father's  presence,  eternally,  indissolubly,  and 
blessedly  one. 

When  we  are  called  to  part  from  those  whom 
we  love  better  than  ourselves,  let  us  kneel  down 
and  pray ;  let  us  abide  alike  in  the  attitude  and 
exercise  of  unceasing  intercession  ;  let  us  realize 
that  space  and  time  are  mere  accidents  of  being, 
and  not  essential ;  let  us  be  sure  that  they  who  are 
near  the  King  must  be  near  to  all  who,  in  heaven 
or  on  earth,  are  nearest  Him  also.  For  such  there 
is  *<  no  more  sea." 

It  is  easier,  for  the  most  part,  to  go  on  board 
ship,  than  to  turn  home  again.  There  are  the  in- 
terest and  excitement  of  new  scenes  and  people  to 
divert  the  traveller.  But  how  grey  is  the  common 
landscape  from  which  the  light  of  the  dear  pres- 
ence is  withdrawn  !  God  alone  can  comfort  the 
bereaved. 

110 


The  God  of  our  fathers  hath  appointed  thee  to 
know  His  will.  Acts  xxU.  14  (R.  v.). 

THE  will  of  God  is  general  and  particular. 
We  may  know  it  generally  from  the  book  of  cre- 
ation, the  ten  commandments,  the  beatitudes,  and 
the  conscience.  But,  in  addition  to  this,  God  has 
a  particular  will  for  each  of  His  children.  The 
moon  shines  on  the  sea,  but  there  is  a  special  path 
of  moonbeams  to  the  spot  where  you  stand,  where 
you  should  be  born,  live,  and  die;  what  you 
should  accomplish  by  your  life ;  with  what  souls 
you  should  be  brought  into  contact. 

God  comes  still,  as  He  did  to  Paul,  with  a 
great  summons,  calling  His  own  from  the  midst 
of  their  fellows,  and  entrusting  to  them  the 
sacred  prerogative  of  knowing,  seeing,  and  hear- 
ing. Happy  are  they  who  are  prepared  to  arise 
at  once,  leave  all,  and  follow.  To  them  it  will 
be  given,  as  to  Paul,  to  know  the  mysteries  of 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  so  as  to  unfold  them  to 
others. 

You  have  been  appointed  to  know  His  will — ^be 
sure  of  this ;  and  if  as  yet  it  is  not  clearly  made 
known,  adopt  these  precautions  :  (i)  Carefully 
remove  all  your  preconceptions  and  prejudices,  so 
that  your  mind  and  heart  can  be  a  tablet  for  God 
to  write  on.  (2)  Set  aside  much  time  for  wait- 
ing on  God,  in  the  study  of  His  Holy  Word. 
(3)  Let  the  glory  of  Jesus  be  the  supreme  con- 
sideration with  you.  (4)  Do  not  run  to  and  fro, 
asking  your  friends  and  companions  what  they 
would  recommend.  (5)  Wait  the  Lord's  lei- 
sure, nor  dare  to  act  unless  you  are  sure  that  you 
are  in  the  line  of  His  purpose.  (6)  Mark  the 
trend  of  His  providence,  for  it  will  certainly  cor- 
roborate His  inner  voice.  (7)  When  you  have 
once  made  up  your  mind  in  faith  and  prayer, 
dare  to  act,  and  never  look  back.  He  will  not  let 
you  be  ashamed. 

Ill 


Brethren,  I  have  lived  before  God  in  all  good 
conscience  until  this  day.  Acts  xxiU.  i  (r,  v.). 

CONSCIENCE  is  what  one  knows  with  one- 
self. That  at  least  is  an  exact  translation  of  this 
Latin  word.  It  is  a  man  coming  to  himself,  fac- 
ing himself,  looking  deep  into  his  own  eyes  as  he 
stands  before  the  mirror  of  God's  truth.  There 
are  varieties  of  conscience — the  weak  conscience, 
which  is  ever  questioning  ;  the  defiled  conscience, 
which  has  a  consciousness  of  neglected  duty  or 
unforgiven  sin ;  the  morbid  conscience,  which  is 
perpetually  discussing  infinitesimal  niceties,  and 
splitting  hairs.  In  contrast  with  these  is  the  good 
conscience,  of  which  the  apostle  speaks. 

We  have  to  live  with  our  conscience,  and  if  it 
is  disquieted  and  restless,  we  find  that  it  will  make 
life  almost  unbearable.  Like  the  restless  sea,  it 
frets  and  foams  through  the  dark  hours ;  and  is 
always  casting  up  the  bitter  memories  and  sad  re- 
grets of  bygone  days.  As  it  was  with  King 
Ahab,  so  it  is  with  all  who  have  sinned  against 
conscience,  they  get  the  vineyard  of  Naboth ; 
but  with  it  they  get  Elijah,  standing  like  an  in- 
carnate conscience  at  the  door,  and  taking  pleasure 
and  enjoyment  from  their  possession. 

Paul  could  not  have  made  this  statement  unless 
he  had  been  very  accurate  and  careful  in  his 
daily  walk  and  conversation  ;  but  he  tells  us  that 
he  perpetually  exercised  himself  to  have  a  con- 
science void  of  offense  toward  God  and  man. 
Let  us  subject  ourselves  to  a  similar  discipline, 
and  often  expose  ourselves  to  the  searching  scru- 
tiny of  the  Holy  Spirit,  so  that  we  may  say  with 
the  apostle,  "My  conscience  also  bearing  me 
witness  in  the  Holy  Ghost"  (Acts  xxiv.  i6; 
Rom.  ix.  i). 

It  is  a  marvellous  experience  to  stand  before 
God ;  but  how  much  more  so  to  live  before 
Him! 

112 


After  the  Way  which  they  call  a  sect,  so  serve  I 
the  God  of  our  fathers.  Ads  xxiv.  14  (r.  v.). 

FOR  want  of  a  better  term  by  which  to  set 
forth  Christianity — whether  by  friend  or  foe  is 
immaterial — the  new  principle  which  it  represented 
was  called  the  Way. 

''Saul  asked  for  letters  to  Damascus,  that  if 
he  found  any  that  were  of  the  Way,  he  might 
bring  them  bound  to  Jerusalem  "  (Acts  ix.  2,  r. 
v.).  At  Ephesus  some  were  ''  disobedient,  speak- 
ing evil  of  the  Way  before  the  multitude '  *  (xix. 
9).  About  that  time  there  arose  no  small  stir 
concerning  the  Way''  (xix.  23).  ''FeHx  had 
more  exact  knowledge  concerning  the  Way'' 
(xxiv.  22).  "I  persecuted  this  Way  unto  the 
death"  (xxii.  4). 

It  is  a  beautiful  and  significant  phrase.  Christ 
is  Himself  the  Way.  He  has  opened  the  way  to 
God.  Through  the  heavens  He  passed  in  His 
ascension,  leaving  behind  Him  at  every  step  a 
way  by  which  we  may  travel  till  every  one  of  us 
appears  in  Zion  before  God.  In  Christ  we  have 
found  the  way  to  the  Father,  and  have  learned  a 
rule  of  life.  The  word  Methodist  is  closely  akin 
to  this.  The  followers  of  Wesley  have  been 
obeying  on  a  new  method  which  their  illustrious 
founder  opened. 

"Men  of  the  Way";  such  is  the  designation 
by  which  Christians  should  be  known.  They 
are  pilgrims  and  strangers,  wayfarers,  having  no 
abiding  city,  but  always  passing  on.  We  may 
say  of  them  as  the  psalmist  did  of  the  pilgrim 
hosts  that  went  up  yearly  to  worship  at  the  feast, 
''Blessed  is  the  man  whose  strength  is  in  Thee; 
in  whose  heart  are  the  highways  to  Zion"  (Psa. 
Ixxxiv.  5,  R.  v.).  And  is  not  this  the  Way  that 
Isaiah  spoke  of  when  he  said,  "  An  highway  shall 
be  there,  and  a  way,  and  it  shall  be  called  the 
way  of  holiness  "  (Isa.  xxxv.  8-10)  ? 
113 


07ie  Jesus ^  who  was  dead,  whom  Paul  affirmed 
to  be  alive.  Acts  xxv.  ig. 

FESTUS  talked  lightly  enough  about  Jesus. 
It  was  only  a  question  in  his  mind  of  some  Jewish 
superstition  hardly  worth  debating.  What  did  it 
matter  to  him  or  his  imperial  master  whether  Jesus 
were  alive  or  dead  ?  And  was  it  not  a  fact  that 
He  was  dead,  crucified  under  Pontius  Pilate? 
How  little  Festus  realized  the  importance  of  that 
death,  not  to  the  Jews  alone,  but  to  himself! 
How  little  he  understood  that  his  own  continued 
life  was  due  to  that  death  of  which  he  spoke  so 
lightly  !  Generations  of  luxury  and  years  of  self- 
indulgence  had  blunted  his  perception  :  as  for  all 
religious  questions — they  were  mere  supersti- 
tion !  And  wnth  respect  to  religious  enthusiasm, 
as  it  appeared  in  Paul,  he  could  find  in  his 
own  history  nothing  that  could  account  for  or  ex- 
plain it. 

Contrast  with  this  sated  worldling — a  flatterer, 
an  office-seeker,  prepared  to  sell  his  soul  for  gold 
— the  noble  apostle  whose  character  stands  out 
in  unsullied  light.  Though  Christ  had  died,  ac- 
cording to  the  Scriptures,  he  knew  that  He  had 
risen,  and  was  alive  forevermore.  His  faith  did 
not  go  back  to  the  cross,  but  rose  perpetually  to 
the  throne.  He  who  was  dead,  was  living  for- 
evermore; sharing  His  servant's  sorrows,  and 
supplying  hourly  grace  for  his  every  need. 

He  affirmed  that  He  was  alive.  On  the  abun- 
dant testimony  of  those  who  had  spoken  with 
Him  after  His  resurrection ;  on  the  strength  of 
his  own  vision  when  Jesus  had  laid  an  arrest  on 
him  hard  by  Damascus;  because  of  the  mighty 
works  that  emanated  from  his  hand;  because 
of  the  daily  fellowship  which  brought  him  into 
the  presence  of  his  Lord,  in  spite  of  clanking 
chain  and  iron  bar — he  affirmed  that  Jesus  was 
alive. 

114 


/  was  7iot  disobediejit  imto  the  heavenly  vision. 

Acts  xxvi.  ig. 

TO  us,  also,  the  heavenly  visions  come.  On 
our  summer  holidays,  rising  between  us  and  some 
soaring  Alp,  or  meeting  us  in  our  walk  beside  the 
gently-breaking  sea;  on  beds  of  pain  and  in 
chambers  of  watching ;  visions  of  the  risen  Lord  ; 
visions  of  His  infinite  grief  and  pain  which  we 
have  caused ;  visions  of  the  possibilities  of  our 
life  as  a  minister  and  witness  of  the  things  which 
we  have  seen  ;  visions  of  results  far  down  the 
vista  wherein  dark  souls  should  become  light, 
slaves  emancipated,  the  defiled  saintly.  Ah, 
visions  of  God  !  ye  leave  an  indelible  impres- 
sion that  moulds  and  ennobles  all  after-years ! 
Pitiable  the  soul  to  which  visions  of  a  holier, 
sweeter  life  never  come,  or,  if  they  come,  are 
never  seen. 

The  one  important  matter  is  our  treatment  of 
them.  We  may  indolently  refuse  to  follow  the 
beckoning  hand  and  obey  the  voice  that  calls. 
We  may  return  to  our  evil  courses  and  follow  the 
devices  and  desires  of  our  own  hearts.  We  may 
cling  to  the  prison  cell,  instead  of  following  the 
angel  that  strikes  us  on  our  side,  and  bids  us  go 
forth  into  freedom.  And  if  so,  like  Balaam, 
we  shall  become  spiritually  blind,  and  fail  to 
see  visions  that  the  dumb  creatures  recognize, 
and  that  would  fain  arrest  us  in  our  perilous 
career. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  we  will  obey  the  vision, 
we  shall  not  only  retain  the  impression,  and  feel 
its  prolonged  and  enthralling  power,  but  shall  re- 
ceive still  further  manifestations  of  the  will  of 
God.  "A  witness  both  of  the  things  wherein 
thou  hast  seen  Me,  and  of  the  things  wherein  I 
will  appear  unto  thee^  To  those  who  love  and 
obey  Him,  He  is  ever  drawing  near  with  fresh 
and  deeper  thoughts  of  the  Father. 
115 


There  stood  by  me  this  night  an  angel  of  Godj 
saying,  fear  not,  Paul !  Acts  xxvii.  zj,  24, 

YES,  the  angels  of  God  can  find  their  way 
through  the  murkiest  air,  and  aUght  on  the  most 
weather-beaten  vessel  that  ever  ploughed  its  diffi- 
cult way  through  the  stormy  seas.  \Mieresoever 
thou  art,  O  child  of  God,  God's  angels  have  their 
eyes  fixed  lo\'ingly  on  thee;  and  in  a  moment,  if 
it  were  God's  wUl  to  give  thee  eyes,  thou  wouldest 
behold  them. 

"  How  oft  do  they  their  silver  bowers  leave. 
To  come  to  succor  us  that  succor  want ! 

How  oft  do  they  with  golden  pinions  cleave 
The  flitting  skyes,  like  flying  pursuivant. 
Against  fowle  feandes  to  ayd  us  militant ! 

They  for  us  6ght,  they  watch  and  dewly  ward. 
And  their  bright  squadrons  round  about  us  plant ! 

And  all  for  love,  and  nothing  for  reward  : 

Oh,  why  should  Heavenly  God  to  men  have  such 
regard  ?  " 

But  if,  Hke  Paul,  we  would  have  the  angel 
ministry,  with  their  assurances  against  fear,  like 
him  we  must  be  able  to  comply  with  two  condi- 
tions— of  being  owned  and  being  loyal. 

JfTwse  I  am. — We  are  His  by  creation,  by 
purchase,  by  consecration.  That  sentiment  of 
being  owned,  which  in  the  case  of  slaves  is  inimi- 
cal to  the  highest  development,  is  the  elementary 
condition  of  our  truest  gro-wth  and  well-being. 
We  belong  to  One  who  is  infinitely  worthy.  We 
cannot  do  as  we  would  with  ourselves.  We  may 
not  take  our  oa^ti  course. 

Whom  I  serve. — The  word  rendered  serve  is 
the  deepest  and  most  expressive  term  that  Paul 
could  employ  of  the  prostration  of  the  soul  at  the 
feet  of  God.  It  is  employed  of  the  glorified,  who 
serve  Him  day  and  night  in  His  temple,  and  of 
whom  it  is  said  that  His  servants  shall  do  Him 
service.  The  heavenly  life  begins  here ;  and  fol- 
lowing its  course,  angels  minister  to  us,  and  the 
stars  in  their  courses  fight  for  us. 
116 


A?id  he  abode  two  whole  years  in  his  own  hired 
dwelling,  etc.  Acts  xxi'Ui.  jo,  j/  (r.  v.). 

THUS,  abruptly,  does  this  fifth  Gospel  close. 
It  has  been  well  said  that  a  close  so  abrupt  sug- 
gests a  continuance  and  a  sequel.  The  curtain 
of  silence  falls  when  Paul's  life  is  not  brought  to 
a  close,  and  his  work  at  Rome  is  still  ih  process; 
and  does  not  this  indicate  the  design  of  the  Holy- 
Spirit  that  we  should  believe  that  the  book  of  the 
Acts  of  the  Apostles  is  never  complete,  but  is 
really  conterminous  with  the  present  age  ?  Thus, 
every  generation  of  every  life  adds  its  own  gold 
link  to  the  chain,  which  reaches  from  the  upper 
chamber  in  the  earthly  Jerusalem  to  the  bridal 
chamber  of  the  New  Jerusalem,  uniting  in  one 
glorious  succession  all  in  whom  Jesus  continues 
by  the  Spirit  to  speak  and  work. 

"WTien  the  late  Bishop  of  Ripon  read  of  the 
labors  and  sufferings  of  John  Williams  in  the 
South  Seas,  he  laid  down  the  narrative,  exclaim- 
ing, ''  This  is  the  tv\-enty- ninth  chapter  of  the 
Acts  of  the  Apostles."  ]May  we  not  rather  say 
the  five  hundredth  or  five  thousandth  ?  Between 
the  stories  of  Paul  and  of  John  Williams,  you 
must  insert  thousands  which  have  been  re- 
corded of  God's  remembrancing  angels  alone, 
as  well  as  those  which  are  filling  our  shelves 
with  missionary  romance  and  biography,  more 
interesting  than  novels,  more  wonderful  than 
dreams. 

''  The  book  is  left  incomplete,  as  it  alwa}-s  will 
be  while  one  believer  is  left  to  teach  and  preach 
those  things  concerning  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  to  fill  up  that  which  is  behind  of  the  afflic- 
tions of  Christ  in  His  own  flesh  for  His  body's 
sake,  which  is  the  Church."  And  the  question 
arises,  Have  you  wrought  or  suffered  for  Jesus 
in  such  wise  as  to  add  some  verses  to  those 
chapters,  which  are  now  being  \NTitten  by  angel 
scribes  ? 

117 


Therein    is   the   righteousness   of  God  retreated 
from  faith  to  faith.  Rom.  i.  17. 

IT  is  important  to  understand  this  verse,  be- 
cause it  is  the  key  to  the  Epistle.  In  the  deepest 
sense,  righteousness  stands  for  two  things — first, 
our  standing  before  God ;  and  next,  our  personal 
character — our  position  and  our  condition — what 
we  are  in  Jesus,  and  what  we  are  in  ourselves  by 
the  Holy  Spirit.  Hooker,  therefore,  well  expresses 
the  truth  when  he  says,  ''The  righteousness  with 
which  we  shall  be  clothed  in  the  world  to  come, 
is  both  perfect  and  inherent ;  that  wherewith  we 
are  Justified  is  perfect,  but  not  inherent ;  that  by 
which  we  are  sanctified  is  inherent,  but  not  per- 
fect." The  term  righteousness,  therefore,  covers 
justification  and  sanctification,  whereof  the  former 
is  treated  in  the  first  five  chapters  of  this  Epistle ; 
and  to  this  we  confine  ourselves. 

There  is  a  difference  between  forgiveness  and 
justification.  By  forgiveness  the  sinner  may  be 
reinstated  in  the  confidence  of  Him  whom  he 
has  wronged;  by  justification  he  is  declared 
righteous  according  to  law,  and  thereby  com- 
mended to  the  confidence  and  respect  of  all 
men. 

Justification  is  our  position  through  the  won- 
derful grace  of  God,  and  by  virtue  of  the  finished 
work  of  Christ,  which  is  imputed  to  all  who  be- 
lieve. All  that  He  is,  is  reckoned  to  us  who  are 
in  Him.  We  are  not  merely  forgiven,  great  and 
wonderful  as  that  act  of  love  and  grace  would  be ; 
but  we  are  dealt  with  as  though  we  had  never 
sinned.  Instead,  therefore,  of  the  law  being  against 
us,  as  we  deserve,  it  is  on  our  side,  defending  and 
protecting  us.  Our  salvation  actually  rests  on  law. 
We  may  claim  it  as  an  absolute  right.  And  all 
this  because  of  God's  infinite  grace :  because,  in 
the  person  of  Jesus,  He  has  perfectly  met,  and 
satisfied,  the  claims  of  His  holy  but  broken 
law. 

118 


The  law  written  in  their  hearts  y  their  conscience 
bearing  witness  therewith.        Rom.  U.  i^  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  a  great  announcement,  and  shows  how 
God  can  judge  men  who  have  never  heard  of  the 
Bible  or  the  Decalogue.  The  latter  is  engraven 
on  their  hearts,  and  is  witnessed  to  by  con- 
science. 

Conscience  is  an  original  faculty.  We  are  no 
more  called  upon  to  investigate  its  origin  than  the 
mathematician  to  inquire  how  the  mind  can  add, 
or  multiply,  or  divide ;  or  than  the  artist  to  ask 
why  we  can  appreciate  the  beautiful.  It  is  part 
of  the  make-up  and  constitution  of  our  moral  na- 
ture. The  word  ought  lies  behind  conscience, 
investing  it  with  the  certainty  and  irresistibleness 
of  the  throne  of  God. 

Conscience  is  the  judgment-seat  of  God  set  up 
within  our  nature.  You  may  always  know  when 
conscience  speaks.  She  never  hesitates,  or  ques- 
tions, or  pronounces  on  the  expediency  of  a  course ; 
but,  as  any  case  is  presented  to  her,  she  pronounces 
absolutely  and  directly  upon  it  as  right  or  wrong. 
And  as  she  speaks,  she  anticipates  the  verdict  of 
the  great  white  throne. 

Doubtless  conscience  may  be  impaired  in  its 
action  by  long  neglect,  or  by  the  determined  pref- 
erence of  human  maxims  as  our  rule  of  action ; 
but  it  is  always  liable  to  resurrection  when  the 
voice  of  God  is  sounding.  The  office  of  the  min- 
ister, Hke  ''  Old  Mortality  "  in  the  story,  is  to  go 
through  the  world,  chisel  in  hand,  clearing  the 
inscriptions  of  the  law  from  the  grit  of  growth 
which  has  rendered  them  almost  illegible  in  too 
many  cases.  The  Prince,  in  the  old  fairy  story, 
sounded  a  blast  at  the  gate  of  the  Sleeping  Palace, 
and  broke  the  spell,  so  that  all  its  inmates  sprang 
up  into  alert  vitality ;  and  similarly  the  Spirit  of 
God,  through  the  Truth,  appeals  to  the  human 
conscience,  which  is  His  ally  in  the  heart  of 
man. 

119 


That  He  might  be  Just,  and  the  Justifier. 

Rom.  Hi.  26. 

THIS  verse  is  often  quoted  as  though  the  word 
yet  must  be  inserted  to  bring  out  its  meaning. 
*' Just,  and  yet  the  Justifier."  The  marvel  of  a 
just  God  justifying  sinful  men  is  thus  strongly  ac- 
centuated. Of  course,  this  is  a  true  thought  and 
marvellous.  But  it  is  not  the  precise  idea  of  the 
apostle,  when  he  says  that  the  just  God  is  the 
Justifier  of  those  that  have  faith  in  Jesus.  He 
means  that  the  very  justice  of  God  has  come  on 
our  side,  and  that  His  love  may  have  its  unhin- 
dered way,  not  only  consistently  with  His  justice, 
but  because  of  it. 

This  is  the  heart  of  the  Gospel.  Jesus  has 
stood  as  our  representative.  He  has  borne  our 
sin,  in  its  curse  and  penalty ;  has  met  the  claims 
of  a  broken  law,  and  satisfied  the  demands  of 
infinite  righteousness.  To  have  done  this  in 
our  name  and  on  our  behalf  not  only  makes 
us  free  from  any  penalty  which  might  other- 
wise have  accrued,  but  gives  us  a  claim — the 
claim  of  the  righteous — on  all  those  blessings 
which  the  righteous  government  of  God  has  to 
bestow. 

Directly  we  become  one  with  Jesus  by  a  living 
faith,  we  stand  possessed  of  all  that  He  has  done 
and  is.  In  Him  we  have  already  suffered  all  that 
the  holy  law  of  God  could  demand  as  the  just 
penalty  of  our  sins.  In  Him  we  have  laid  in  the 
grave,  paying  the  uttermost  farthing  that  could  be 
exacted.  In  Him  we  have  been  liberated  from 
the  prison-house,  and  have  passed  into  the  pres- 
ence and  welcome  of  God.  We  may  claim,  there- 
fore, that  the  law  of  God  should  make  for  us,  as 
once  it  made  against  us.  We  are  saved  not  only 
by  the  grace,  but  by  the  justice  of  God.  He  is 
faithful  to  His  Son  and  just  to  the  law,  when  He 
forgives  us  our  sins. 

120 


He  staggered  not  at  the  promise  of  God  through 

unbelief.  Rom.  iv.  20. 

IT  was  a  marvellous  promise  that  this  childless 
pair  should  have  a  child,  and  become  progenitors 
of  a  great  nation,  so  that  the  stars  of  the  heavenly 
vault  and  the  sand-grains  on  the  ocean-shore 
should  not  be  more  numerous.  And  it  was 
enough  to  stagger  any  man  to  be  told  of  it.  But 
Abraham  staggered  not.     How  was  this  ? 

//  did  not  arise  from  ignoring  the  difficulties 
that  obstructed  its  realization. — He  might  have 
done  so.  Whenever  the  natural  obstacles  arose 
in  his  mind,  he  might  have  ignored  them.  But 
this,  according  to  the  r.  v.  rendering  of  the 
previous  verse,  was  not  Abraham's  policy.  He 
quietly  and  deliberately  considered  the  enormous 
difficulties  that  lay  in  the  path  of  the  Divine 
purpose,  and  in  spite  of  them  <'he  staggered 
not." 

But  his  uns  tagger  ing  faith  arose  from  his  great 
thoughts  of  Him  who  had  promised. — He  kept 
saying  to  himself.  He  is  able,  He  is  able.  He 
knew  that  God  would  not  have  said  what  He 
could  not  perform.  He  knew  that  the  God  of 
nature  was  Lord  of  the  nature  He  had  made. 
He  knew  that  no  word  of  the  Almighty  could  be 
destitute  of  power.  He  fed  his  faith  by  cherish- 
ing lofty  and  profound  thoughts  of  God's  infinite 
resources.  There  rang  in  his  heart  the  assurance, 
I  am  El  Shaddai. 

It  is  remarkable  that,  throughout  Abraham's 
life,  God  was  continually  giving  new  glimpses 
into  His  own  glorious  nature.  With  every  temp- 
tation, call  to  obedience,  or  demand  for  sacrifice, 
a  new  and  deeper  revelation  was  entwined.  This 
fed  his  faith,  and  gave  it  unstaggering  strength. 
Child  of  God,  feed  thy  faith  on  Promise.  For 
every  look  at  your  difficulties,  take  ten  at  what 
thy  God  is. 

121 


They   which   receive   abundance   of  grace  .  .  . 
sha//  reign  in  life.  Rom.  v.  17. 

ALL  God's  dealings  with  us  are  on  the  same 
principle.  As  we  received  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord, 
so  we  must  walk  in  Him.  Whether  it  be  justifi- 
cation or  sanctification ;  whether  reconciliation  or 
reigning  in  life  that  is  under  consideration — the 
same  mighty  principles  underlie  and  control  the 
Divine  gifts  and  our  participation  in  them.  We 
receive  reconciliation  as  a  gift  at  the  beginning  of 
our  Christian  life,  and  we  have  to  receive  all  else 
by  the  same  medium  to  the  end.  Forever  and 
forever  we  have  just  to  wait  till  God  fill  us,  as 
the  flower-cups  that  are  now  filled  with  sunshine 
and  now  with  dew  or  rain. 

You  have  already  received  the  reconciliation 
(ver.  11). — Unable  to  earn  it  by  your  own  en- 
deavors, you  were  at  last  content  to  receive  it  as 
a  free  gift  placed  into  your  open  hand  ;  now  you 
have  to  maintain  the  same  position  with  respect 
to  all  the  spiritual  gifts  that  you  need  for  the 
maintenance  of  a  godly  life,  and  to  enable  you  to 
reign.  Faith — simple,  open-handed,  heaven -re- 
garding faith — is  the  one  unchanging  law  of  the 
holy  life. 

"  Trusting  Jesus,  that  is  alV 

This  reigning  in  life  is  not  to  be  relegated  to 
the  unseen  and  future. — It  is  meant  to  be  our 
present  experience.  He  hath  made  us  kings  to 
God,  even  the  Father.  We  are  called  to  the  roy- 
alty of  men,  the  abundance,  the  freedom,  the 
consciousness  of  power  and  victory,  which  we  are 
wont  to  associate  with  those  who  reign.  To  reign 
in  the  ordinary  life  of  the  home,  the  shop,  the 
counting-house — such  is  our  high  calling  in 
Christ  Jesus.  And  it  may  be  ours  if  we  receive 
"abundance  of  grace  "  of  the  one  Man,  Jesus 
Christ. 

122 


Present  yourselves  unto  God. 

Rom.  vi.  I  J  (R.  v.). 

WE  must  choose.  On  the  one  hand  stands 
sin,  fining  the  market-place  with  its  appeals,  and 
bidding  for  us ;  on  the  other  hand,  God  in  the 
person  of  His  Son.  For  it  is  well  known  that  to 
whomsoever  we  yield  ourselves  to  obey,  his  serv- 
ants we  shall  be.  Sin  wants  us,  not  only  to 
work  its  fell  results  by  us,  but  to  curse  and 
ruin  us;  whilst  God  wants  to  bless  us  with 
eternal  life. 

We  may  not  be  able  to  forecast  or  to  arrange 
many  things  in  our  lives,  which  are  difficult  and 
perplexing ;  and  at  first  it  is  not  wise  to  discuss 
our  attitude  or  action  with  respect  to  them.  The 
first  and  most  momentous  question  which  presses 
for  immediate  solution  is,  whether  we  are  prepared 
to  present  our  members — brain,  voice,  hand, 
heart — to  God ;  that  through  them  He  may  ful- 
fill His  good  purpose. 

The  argument  is  a  very  cogent  one.  The  apos- 
tle tells  us  that  we  have  been  delivered  from 
death ;  that  in  Jesus  Christ  we  have  been  brought 
back  to  stand  on  the  resurrection  side  of  the  grave. 
For  such  a  wondrous  deliverance,  he  exclaims, 
there  is  only  one  adequate  return.  Present 
yourselves  to  be  the  slaves  of  your  Redeemer. 
Surely  none  of  us  would  resemble  the  rich 
man,  who  was  saved  from  drowning  by  a  brave 
sailor,  and  offered  him  half-a-crown  in  recom- 
pense ! 

In  this  way  also  we  shall  be  delivered  from  sin. 
Merely  to  resist  and  refuse  it,  is  not  enough ;  we 
shall  not  get  perfect  freedom  so.  But  if  we  turn 
to  God  with  a  full  purpose  of  heart,  and  give  Him 
possession,  we  shall  be  delivered  from  the  domin- 
ion of  evil,  because  the  responsibility  of  our  eman- 
cipation and  perfecting  will  rest  on  Him  to  whom 
we  have  yielded  spirit,  soul,  and  body. 
123 


O  wretched  man  that  I  am  ! 

Rom.  vii.  24. 

THIS  chapter  is  very  full  of  the  personal  pro- 
noun. Me  and  /  are  the  pivot  around  which  its 
argument  revolves.  The  strenuous  efforts  which 
the  soul  makes,  not  so  much  to  justify  as  to  sanc- 
tify itself,  to  realize  its  ideal,  to  walk  worthy  of 
the  Lord,  are  well-pleasing,  and  are  described  by 
a  master  hand. 

Is  there  one  of  us  who  has  not  read  these  words 
repeatedly,  and  in  desperation  ?  They  have  been 
so  exactly  true.  We  have  longed  with  passionate 
sincerity  that  a  new  man  might  arise  in  us  to  free 
us  from  our  old  man,  and  make  us  the  men  we 
fain  would  be.  We  have  been  conscious  of  a 
subtle  force  mastering  our  struggles,  like  the  ser- 
pents overcoming  Laocoon  and  his  sons ;  we  have 
realized  that  a  corrupting  carcase  was  bound  to 
our  backs,  as  to  the  Roman  criminals  of  old,  fill- 
ing the  air  with  miasma,  and  poisoning  our  life. 
We  have  cried  bitterly,  O  wretched  man,  who 
shall  deliver? 

The  key  to  the  plaintive  moan  of  this  chapter 
consists  in  this.  It  is  the  result  of  the  endeavor 
to  live  a  holy  life  apart  from  the  power  of  the  in- 
dwelling Saviour,  and  independently  of  the  grace 
of  the  Holy  Spirit.  All  such  efforts  are  sure  to 
end  in  wretchedness.  We  can  no  more  sanctify 
ourselves  than  we  can  justify.  Deliverance  from 
the  power  of  sin  is  the  gift  of  God's  grace,  as  for- 
giveness is.  And  it  is  only  when  we  have  come 
to  the  very  end  of  all  our  strivings  and  resolvings, 
and  have  abandoned  ourselves  to  the  Saviour,  that 
He  should  do  in  us  and  for  us  what  we  cannot  do 
for  ourselves,  that  we  are  led  to  cry,  "I  thank 
God  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord." 

"  All  things  are  possible  to  God ; 

To  Christ,  the  power  of  God  in  men, 
To  me,  when  I  am  all  subdued, 
When  I,  in  Christ,  am  born  again." 

124 


The  Spirit  Himself  maketh  intercession  with 
groani?lgS.  Rom.  viii.  ^6  (R.  v.). 

THERE  is  a  threefold  groaning  here. 

Creation  groans  (22). — The  sufferings  of  the 
dumb  animals,  under  the  brutal  tyranny  of  man ; 
in  hard  service ;  in  the  torture  chambers  of 
vivisectionists ;  to  yield  pleasure  ;  to  give  food  ; 
or  to  provide  dress — must  fill  the  ear  of  Heaven 
with  groans.  The  sighs  of  myriads  of  acres,  con- 
demned to  bear  the  poisonous  poppy  or  the  barley 
for  the  manufacture  of  spirit,  must  be  heard  acrc^gs 
the  broad  expanse  of  space.  There  is  a  discord, 
an  oppression,  a  vanity  in  the  universe  around  us, 
which  constantly  betrays  the  secret  oppression  of 
evil.  Goethe  said  that  Nature  seemed  to  him 
to  be  like  a  captive  maiden  crying  aloud  for  re- 
lease. 

The  saints  groan  (23). — We  wait  for  our 
adoption,  for  the  manifestation  of  our  sonship,  for 
the  redemption  of  our  bodies  from  the  last  rem- 
nants of  the  fall ;  and  as  we  wait,  we  groan  be- 
neath the  pressure  of  the  present,  the  weight  of 
mortality,  and  with  eager  desire  for  the  blessed 
advent  of  the  Lord. 

The  Spirit  groans  (26). — The  pressure  of  sin 
and  sorrow  in  our  world  is  heavy  for  Him  to 
bear,  and  He  sighs  bitterly,  as  Jesus  did  when 
He  stood  face  to  face  with  the  grave  of  His  dead 
friend. 

But  these  groans  portend  life,  not  death.  They 
are  full  of  hope,  not  despair.  They  are  the  pangs 
of  birth,  not  the  throes  of  death.  Out  of  the 
agony  of  the  present  the  new  heavens  and  earth 
are  being  born. 

"  Unto  you  is  given 
To  watch  for  the  coming  of  His  feet 
Who  is  the  glory  of  our  blessed  Heaven. 
The  work  and  watching  will  be  very  sweet, 
Even  in  an  earthly  home  ; 
And  in  such  an  hour  as  you  think  not 
He  will  come." 

125 


Jacob  I  loved ^  hut  Esau  I  hated, 

Rom.  ix.  ij  (R.  v.). 

THE  apostle  is  dealing  here,  not  with  in- 
dividuals as  such,  but  with  peoples  and  nations. 
For  instance,  Isaac  stands  for  the  entire  Jewish 
race — Abraham's  seed  (ver.  7).  He  is  dealing 
with  the  question,  why  it  was  that  God  chose 
Israel  and  rejected  Edom ;  chose  Jacob  and  re- 
jected Esau  :  and  he  shows  that  the  ultimate  de- 
cision of  their  destinies  lay  in  the  purpose  of  God, 
according  to  election.  The  one  was  elect  to  be  a 
channel  of  immense  blessing  to  the  world ;  whilst 
the  other  was  rejected. 

But  we  must  always  associate  the  Divine  fore- 
knowledge with  the  Divine  choice.  *' Whom  He 
did  foreknow.  He  also  did  predestinate."  We 
must  regard  Jacob  and  Esau,  not  as  individual 
personalities  merely,  but  as  the  founders  of  na- 
tions. For  God's  purpose  in  the  building-up  of 
the  chosen  people,  Jacob  the  methodical  and  far- 
seeing,  was  more  suited  than  Esau  the  free-lance, 
the  rover,  the  child  of  impulse  and  passion.  And, 
besides,  there  were  religious  aptitudes  and  capaci- 
ties within  him,  of  which  Esau  gave  no  sign  or 
trace.  This  does  not  solve  the  entire  mystery, 
perhaps  ;  but  only  casts  it  a  degree  or  two  further 
back.  Still,  it  ought  to  be  considered.  Like  a 
candle,  it  casts  a  slender  ray  on  to  the  black 
abyss.  In  any  case,  is  it  not  certain  that  God's 
choice  did  alight  on  him  who  was  most  suited  to 
serve  the  Divine  purpose  ? 

It  may  be  that  God  is  wanting  to  execute  His 
purpose  through  you.  Take  heed.  Still  the 
savory  dish  steams  on  the  desert  air,  and  appeals 
to  the  appetite  of  our  natures;  and  we  are 
strongly  tempted  to  forego  the  unseen  and  eternal 
for  a  moment's  gratification.  See  to  it  that  for 
one  morsel  of  meat  you  do  not  sell  your  birth- 
right. 

126 


If  thou  shall  co7ifess  wilh  thy  mouth  Jesus  as 
Lord,  etc.  Rom.  X.  9  (R.  v.).  ^ 

SALVATION  here  is  evidently  to  be  taken  in 
its  most  extended  meaning.  It  stands  even  more 
for  the  deliverance  of  the  soul  from  the  love  and 
dominion  of  sin  than  for  the  removal  of  its  justly- 
incurred  penalty.  That  we  should  be  pure  in 
heart,  holy  in  thought,  consecrated  in  life,  with 
all  the  range  of  our  nature  controlled  by  His  in- 
dwelling Spirit — such  is  the  Divine  intention  with 
respect  to  us,  as  suggested  by  this  deep,  great 
word  Salvation.  But  there  are  two  conditions,  on 
our  compliance  with  which  this  saving  power  is 
realized. 

We  must  confess  Jesus  as  Lord. — Throughout 
Scripture  there  is  a  close  connection  between 
Christ's  Royalty  and  His  Saviourship.  **  Behold, 
thy  King  cometh  to  thee,  .  .  .  having  salva- 
tion ;  "  *'  Him  hath  God  set  forth  to  be  a  Prince 
and  a  Saviour."  ''Melchizedek,  king  of  Salem, 
priest  of  God  Most  High,  .  .  .  made  like  unto 
the  Son  of  God,  abideth  a  priest  continually." 
We  shall  never  know  Christ  as  a  Saviour  from  in- 
bred sin  until  we  have  definitely  and  absolutely 
enthroned  Him  in  our  hearts.  A  physician  is  not 
content  with  healing  outbreaks  of  disease  and 
fever  when  they  occur ;  but  claims  leave  to  ex- 
amine all  the  arrangements  of  the  house,  so  as  to 
deal  with  the  sources  of  the  mischief. 

We  must  also  steadfastly  believe  in  the  Resur- 
rection.— The  risen  Lord,  sitting  at  the  right  hand 
of  God,  in  all  the  vigor  of  an  indissoluble  life  : 
still  working  in  the  world,  and  energizing  the 
hearts  of  His  own  :  entering  to  indwell,  to  fill,  to 
unite  with  His  own  eternal  life — such  is  the  vision 
offered  to  our  faith.  Let  us  look  away  to  Him 
with  a  persistent,  unwavering  gaze,  until  sin  ceases 
to  attract  us,  and  Satan  finds  a  Stronger  in  pos- 
session. 

127 


Of  Him,  mid  through  Him,  and  to  Him,  are  all 
things.  Rofu.  xi.  j6. 

THIS  verse  reminds  us  of  those  lagoons  of  per- 
fectly still  clear  water,  of  which  travellers  tell. 
So  clear,  that  it  is  easily  possible  to  look  into  their 
translucent  depths  to  where  the  submarine  foliage 
waves  !  So  deep,  that  the  ordinary  measuring 
line  fails  to  plumb  them !  All  these  words  are 
monosyllables.  A  child  just  learning  to  read 
could  easily  spell  them  out.  But  who  shall  ex- 
haust their  meaning  ? 

Of  Him. — The  entire  scheme  of  redemption ; 
the  marvellous  history  of  the  chosen  people,  with 
which  this  chapter  is  occupied ;  the  universe  of 
matter,  all  are  included  in  the  all  things  that  have 
emanated  out  of  God.  No  one  has  been  His 
counsellor,  or  given  aught  to  Him.  From  all 
created  things,  which  are  as  the  stream,  let  us 
climb  to  Him,  who  is  their  fountain,  source,  and 
origin ;  and  in  Him  let  us  learn  to  fill  our  own 
souls  to  the  very  brim. 

Through  Him. — Through  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Mediator,  God  has  poured  the  entire  grace  and 
wealth  of  His  nature  to  bless  and  help  us.  There 
is  no  good  thing  that  does  not  come  to  us 
through  the  mediation  of  the  Second  Person  of 
the  Holy  Trinity.  Through  Him  He  made  the 
worlds.  Through  Him  we  have  received  the 
reconciliation.  Through  Him,  also,  all  grace  is 
made  to  abound  toward  us.  Never  forget  to 
magnify  the  Lord  Jesus  as  the  source  of  all  your 
supply. 

To  Him. — Creation,  Providence,  Redemption, 
are  all  tending  back  to  God.  The  tide  is  set- 
ting in  toward  the  throne.  A  revenue  of  glory 
shall  yet  accrue  from  all  that  has  happened  within 
the  parenthesis  of  time.  Every  whit  in  the  great 
temple  shall  one  day  say  ''  Glory  !  " 
128 


Present  your  bodies  a  living  sacrifice^  holy,  ac- 
ceptable to  God.  Rom.  xii.  I. 

TO  present  carries  us  back  to  chapter  vi.  We 
might  almost  say  that  the  intervening  chapters, 
after  the  manner  of  the  apostle,  are  one  pro- 
longed digression  or  parenthesis,  and  that  he 
classes  all  the  great  things  with  which  he  has  been 
treating  as  among  the  mercies  of  God,  and  as 
reasons  for  our  entire  consecration.  Every  dis- 
closure of  God's  grace  toward  us  is  an  argu- 
ment for  our  complete  surrender  to  His  will  and 
power. 

We  are  called  on  to  present  our  bodies  as  in- 
struments of  righteousness,  because  all  true 
regimen  of  the  inner  life  immediately  affects  the 
body  in  all  its  members;  and,  conversely,  the 
consecration  of  the  body  reacts  upon  and  affects 
the  temper  of  the  soul.  It  would  be  well  for  you 
to  take  Miss  Havergal's  hymn,  with  its  enumer- 
ation of  the  various  parts  of  the  body,  and  offer 
and  present  yourself,  to  be  from  this  day  and 
forward,  wholly  for  God.  Only  believe  that  He 
is  more  anxious  for  this  than  words  can  tell,  be- 
cause He  loves  you  so,  and  that  He  accepts  imme- 
diately what  you  offer. 

Such  consecration  must  be  living ;  that  is,  it 
must  enter  into  all  our  life,  being  holy,  well- 
pleasing  to  God,  and  rational.  It  is  not  only 
reasonable  when  we  consider  the  relation  we 
sustain  to  Him,  but  it  should  engage  all  our  in- 
telligence and  reasoning  faculties.  And  when  it 
is  made,  and  the  soul  is  becoming  duly  trans- 
figured in  its  exercise,  we  begin  to  prove  that 
God's  will,  which  once  we  dreaded,  is  also  good, 
well-pleasing,  and  perfect.  When  we  look  at 
God's  will  from  a  distance,  and  before  consecra- 
tion, it  seems  impossible.  It  is  only  when  we  be- 
gin to  obey,  that  we  can  say  : 

"  Thou  sweet  beloved  will  of  God." 
129 


Put  ye  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Rom.  xiii.  14. 

THIS  verse  is  ever  memorable  from  its  asso- 
ciation with  the  life  of  Augustine,  who  says : 
''Thus  was  I  sick  and  tormented  in  mind,  bit- 
terly accusing  myself,  and  rolling  and  turning 
about  in  my  chain,  till  it  might  be  wholly 
broken." 

At  length,  rushing  into  the  garden,  groaning 
in  spirit,  '*  all  my  bones  were  crying  out,  soul-sick 
was  I  and  grievously  tormented.  I  said  to  my- 
self, *  Be  it  done  now ;  be  it  done  now. '  And  a 
voice  said,  '  Why  standest  thou  in  thyself,  and  so 
standest  not?  Cast  thyself  upon  Him.  Fear 
not;  He  will  not  withdraw  Himself,  to  let  thee 
fall.  He  will  receive,  and  will  heal  thee.  Stop 
thine  ears  against  those  unclean  members  of  thine, 
which  are  upon  the  earth,  that  they  may  be 
mortified.'  " 

Then  arose  a  mighty  tempest,  bringing  a  heavy 
downpour  of  tears.  ''I  cast  myself  under  a 
certain  fig-tree,  and  gave  rein  to  my  tears,  and  the 
floods  of  mine  eyes  brake  forth.  Why  not  now  ? 
Why  not  this  hour  make  an  end  of  my  unclean- 
ness  ?  And,  lo  !  from  the  neighboring  house  I 
heard  a  voice  as  of  a  boy  or  girl,  I  know  not 
which,  singing  and  oft  repeating,  'Take  and 
read ;  take  and  read  ! '  Checking  the  torrent  of 
my  tears,  I  arose,  interpreting  it  to  be  a  Divine 
command  to  open  the  Book  and  read  the  first 
chapter  I  could  find.  I  seized ;  I  opened,  and  in 
silence  read  the  passage  on  which  mine  eyes  fell : 
'  Not  in  rioting  and  drunkenness,  not  in  chamber- 
ing and  wantonness,  not  in  strife  and  envying. 
But  put  ye  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  make 
not  provision  for  the  flesh,  to  fulfill  the  lusts 
thereof.'  No  further  would  I  read  ;  nor  was  there 
need,  for  instantly  all  my  heart  was  flooded  with 
a  light  of  peace,  all  the  sadness  of  doubt  melted 


away !  " 


130 


He  that  herein  serveth  Christ  is  well-pleasing  to 
God,  and  approved  of  men.    Rom.  xiv.  i8  (r.  v.). 

DEAN  HOWSON  renders  this  verse  thus: 
*'  He  who  Hves  in  these  things  as  Christ's  bonds- 
man is  well-pleasing  to  God,  and  cannot  be  con- 
demned by  men."  There  are  two  rules,  therefore, 
to  be  observed  by  us  when  we  consider  our  be- 
havior in  that  great  border-land  which  lies  between 
the  dark  and  light,  the  clearly  wrong  and  clearly 
right.  We  are  all  conscious  of  habits  and  tastes, 
of  inclinations  toward  certain  forms  of  amusement 
and  recreation,  of  methods  of  life,  which  do  not 
contravene  any  distinct  law  of  God,  but  are  cer- 
tainly open  to  question.  It  is  such  things  that  fall 
within  the  scope  of  these  two  principles. 

First,  we  must  always  remember  that  we  are 
Chrisfs  bondservants. — Let  us  look  then,  every 
day  and  hour,  and  as  to  the  mental  habit,  every 
moment,  upon  Jesus  Christ  as  our  Master. 
Saintly  George  Herbert  chose  that  to  be,  as  it 
were,  his  best-beloved  aspect  of  his  Saviour; 
<'My  Master,  Jesus."  *'An  oriental  fragrancy, 
my  Master."  Let  us  do  the  same.  Let  us  wear 
the  word  next  the  heart,  next  the  will ;  nay,  let  it 
sink  into  the  very  springs  of  both,  deeper  every 
day.  And  as  each  fresh  question  arises  in  our 
life,  let  us  stand  close  besides  Him,  noticing  the 
expression  of  His  face,  asking  Him  what  He 
would  desire,  and  always  reckoning  that  the  least 
suggestion  of  His  preference  is  law.  **  None  of 
us  liveth  to  himself :  for,  whether  we  live,  we  live 
unto  the  Lord." 

Second,  we  must  always  bear  in  mind  the 
spiritual  life  of  others. — We  are  to  put  no  stum- 
bling-block, or  occasion  for  falling,  in  another's 
way.  It  is  good  neither  to  eat  flesh,  nor  drink 
wine,  nor  to  do  any  other  thing,  whereby  our 
brother  is  made  to  stumble.  Let  us  each  of  us 
please  his  neighbor  for  good  ends,  to  build  him 
up ;  for  Christ  pleased  not  Himself. 
131 


/  will  not  dare  to  speak  of  any  things  save  those 
that  Christ  wrought  through  me. 

Rom.  XV.  78  (R.  v.). 

ALL  things  that  have  not  sprung  from  the  in- 
dwelUng  and  inworking  power  of  Christ,  are 
probably  valueless  in  the  sight  of  God.  As  the 
apostle  dared  not  record  them  in  this  book,  so 
probably  they  are  not  recorded  in  God's  book. 
They  lack  the  one  principle  or  germ  of  life. 
Our  Lord  said,  Separate  from  Me  ye  can  do 
nothing;  and  probably,  therefore,  whatever  we 
do  out  of  living  union  with  Him  amounts  to 
nothing. 

These  words  are  a  window  into  the  apostle's 
inner  life.  He  was  ever  looking  to  the  Lord  to 
work  through  him,  in  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  He  had  nothing,  therefore,  to  boast  of, 
as  he  reviewed  his  labors ;  the  impulse  in  which 
they  originated,  and  the  success  with  which  they 
were  crowned,  were  alike  attributable  to  the  Son 
of  God,  who  had  been  revealed  and  formed 
within. 

Let  us  so  yield  ourselves  to  Him,  that  the  great 
Master  may  fulfill  through  us  also  all  the  good 
pleasure  of  His  will. 

Let  us  wait  before  Him  in  earnest  expectancy, 
till  the  foundation  of  His  purpose  begins  to  arise 
within  us;  and  let  us  receive  from  Him  the 
gracious  power  of  which  to  reaHze  His  plans.  "  I 
cannot,"  one  may  say,  ''give  that  tract;  speak 
to  that  fellow-traveller  ;  witness  for  Christ  on  that 
ship  or  in  that  shop ;  stand  up  in  that  pulpit  and 
preach."  No,  perhaps  not.  But  you  can  let 
Christ  do  these  things  through  you. 

"  So  others  shall 
Take  patience,  labor,  to  their  heart  and  land, 
From  thy  land  and  thy  heart  and  thy  brave  cheer. 
And  God's  grace  fructify  through  thee  to  all. 

The  least  flower  with  a  brimming  cup  may  stand 
And  share  its  dewdrop  with  another  near." 
132 


Quartus  the  brother. 

Rom.  xvi.  2j  (R.  v.). 

THAT  is  all  we  know  about  him.  The  others 
whose  names  are  written  here  are  more  or  less 
famous,  Tertius  wrote  the  Epistle;  Gaius  was 
evidently  a  man  of  influence ;  Erastus  was  the 
treasurer  of  the  city,  and  so  on.  But  Quartus 
was  just  a  humble,  simple  Christian,  who  had  no 
handle  to  his  name,  save  his  brotherhness  and  his 
desire  to  assure  his  Roman  brethren,  whom  prob- 
ably he  had  never  seen,  of  his  love  to  them.  ''  So 
he  begs  a  little  corner  in  Paul's  letter,  and  gets  it; 
and  there,  in  his  little  niche,  like  some  statue  of  a 
forgotten  saint  scarce  seen  amidst  the  glories  of  a 
great  cathedral,  *  Quartus  the  brother '  stands  to 
all  time." 

What  a  lesson  in  humility  /  Seekest  thou 
great  things  for  thyself?  seek  them  not.  Be  con- 
tent to  live  and  die  unknown,  except  for  the  love 
that  breathes  through  thy  life,  not  to  those  of 
thine  own  circle  merely,  but  for  those  across  the 
sea,  with  whom  thou  wouldst  fain  strike  hands. 
Thy  one  joy,  that  thou  hast  been  born  into  the 
family  of  God.  Thy  creed,  that  all  regenerate 
souls,  of  every  name  and  sect,  are  members  of 
the  same  family,  children  of  the  same  Father,  and 
therefore  one  in  ties  of  peculiar  tenderness  and 
strength. 

What  a  revelation  this  slight  reference  is  to  the 
new  binding  forces  of  the  Gospel !  At  the  Ad- 
vent the  world  was  split  by  great  gulfs  of  national 
hatred  ;  fierce  enmities  of  race,  language,  and  re- 
ligion ;  wide  separations  far  profounder  than  any- 
thing that  we  know.  And  then  the  Gospel  came, 
which  began  to  gather  men  of  every  race  into  one 
family,  in  Jesus  Christ,  the  Divine  Elder-brother ; 
and  from  this,  uniting  influences  of  brotherhood 
began  to  permeate  the  world. 
133 


Called  vnto   the  fellowship   of  His   Son  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord.  /  Cor.  i.  g. 

THE  word  for  fellowship  is  the  same  that  is 
employed  in  Luke  v.  lo,  of  James  and  John  be- 
ing partners  with  Simon.  We  have  been  called 
into  partnership  with  the  Son  of  God,  in  His  re- 
demptive purposes,  His  love  and  tears  for  men, 
and  ultimately  in  His  triumph  and  glory.  He 
has  entered  into  partnership  with  man,  and  we 
are  now  summoned  into  partnership  with  Him 
through  the  communion  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  In 
the  words  of  the  apostle,  ''our  fellowship  [or 
partnership]  is  with  the  Father,  and  with  His  Son 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord." 

How  fruitful  of  comfort  is  the  thought  that 
Christ's  interests  are  ours,  and  that  we  are  at 
liberty  to  draw  upon  His  resources  to  the  utter- 
most. Suppose  a  poor  clerk  were  to  be  sum- 
moned from  his  desk  into  the  counting-house  of  a 
Rothschild,  and  informed  that  from  that  moment 
he  was  taken  into  partnership  with  the  firm : 
would  it  not  be  less  of  an  honor  than  this  which 
has  fallen  to  our  lot  ?  Association  with  million- 
aires in  money-making  were  infinitely  less  desir- 
able than  association  with  the  Son  of  God  in 
world-saving.  And  would  that  poor  clerk  feel 
any  anxiety  as  to  his  share  in  meeting  the  im- 
mense liabilities  of  the  concern  ?  However  great 
they  might  be,  he  would  know  that  the  resources 
of  the  firm  were  adequate,  and  he  would  be  able 
to  sleep  easily  at  night,  though  millions  were  due 
on  the  morrow.  Child  of  God,  cannot  thy  Father 
meet  all  His  Son's  engagements  ? 

The  call  to  this  partnership  is  from  the  Father. 
It  is  He  who  has  chosen  us  for  this  high  honor  of 
cooperating  with  His  Son.  Will  He  have  led  us 
into  such  an  association,  and  leave  us  to  be  over- 
whelmed by  the  difficulties  of  the  situation  He 
has  created  ?  It  cannot  be  !  He  will  supply  all 
our  need. 

134 


God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  His  Spirit. 

I  Cor.  it.  10. 

EYES  of  my  soul,  ye  have  no  need  to  wait 
until  the  vail  of  the  flesh  that  screens  off  the 
beatific  vision  has  been  rent  in  twain  by  the 
mighty  hands  of  the  Angel  of  Death,  ere  ye 
behold  the  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and 
honey  ! 

Ears  of  my  heart,  ye  need  not  remain  dull  and 
listless  till  the  peal  of  the  archangel's  trumpet 
thrill  you,  and  summon  you  to  the  music  of  the 
harpers  harping  on  their  harps  or  the  chime  of  the 
glassy  sea. 

Heart  of  mine,  be  expectant !  Awake  !  Lo, 
there  shall  come  into  thee,  penetrating,  pervading, 
filling  thy  every  recess,  all  those  blessed  things 
which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love 
Him.  They  shall  enter  thee,  as  a  retinue  of 
knights  might  enter  a  beleaguered  castle  to  make 
it  strong  against  any  possible  combination  of  the 
foe. 

Only  I  must  love  God.  Through  Isaiah  I  am 
taught  that  I  must  wait  for  Him  (Isa.  Ixiv.  4) ; 
here  I  learn  that  I  must  love.  For  love  is  quick 
to  know.  He  that  loveth  knoweth  God.  It  was 
the  apostle  whom  Jesus  loved  that  beheld  Him  on 
the  margin  of  the  lake.  It  is  to  the  warm,  tender 
atmosphere  of  loving  hearts  that  the  unchecked, 
ungrieved  Spirit  unfolds  His  secrets.  Let  me, 
therefore,  bathe  myself  in  the  gracious  atmosphere 
of  my  Saviour's  presence,  never  going  outside  its 
genial  glow,  never  falling  behind  His  going  forth, 
until  I  am  entrusted,  through  the  Spirit,  with  the 
deep  things  of  God. 

"  God  only  knows  the  love  of  God ; 
Oh  that  it  now  were  shed  abroad 

In  this  poor  stony  heart ! 
For  love  I  sigh,  for  love  I  pine, 
This  only  portion,  Lord,  be  mine — 
Be  mine  this  better  part !  " 
135 


Let  every  man  take  heed  how  he  buildeth. 

I  Cor.  in.  jo. 

A  FITTING  illustration  of  the  Christian  life 
for  the  people  of  Corinth,  famed  for  its  architec- 
ture. We  are  all  builders,  whether  we  choose  or 
not !  We  may  be  temple-builders  !  Each  heart, 
each  life,  each  character,  may  become  a  temple 
of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Every  act  we  do,  every  word  we  utter,  the  way 
in  which  we  spend  any  moments  of  our  time,  is 
either  a  fragment  of  gold,  silver,  and  precious 
stones,  or  of  wood,  hay,  and  stubble,  built  into 
the  rising  structure  of  the  erection  entrusted  to 
our  skill  and  pains.  It  does  not  so  much  matter 
what  we  do,  but  how  we  do  it.  Every  time  we 
perform  any  action  with  the  best  motives  and 
spirit,  we  deposit  a  tiny  grain  of  gold-dust; 
whenever,  on  the  other  hand,  we  do  aught  after 
a  slovenly,  superficial,  and  careless  manner,  we 
weave  into  the  structure  of  character  a  material 
which  will  yield  as  inevitably  in  the  hour  of  temp- 
tation as  wood,  hay,  and  stubble  before  flame. 

We  sometimes,  at  the  end  of  the  day,  reviewing 
the  past  hours,  bitterly  lament  that  we  have  done 
nothing  in  the  way  of  character -building.  ' '  There 
is  nothing  to  show  for  this  day,"  we  say  mentally 
to  ourselves.  Ah  !  but  there  is.  Every  moment 
has  left  its  record  on  your  heart.  Every  act  has 
left  you  confirmed  in  a  good  habit  or  in  a  bad  one. 
The  soul-life  has  not  halted  for  a  second ;  one  has 
been  growing  to  moral  health,  or  toward  decrepi- 
tude, consumption,  and  decay.  If  not  gold,  then 
wood  ;  if  not  silver,  then  hay ;  if  not  costly  stones, 
then  stubble. 

We  shall  not  be  saved  on  account  of  our  works. 
The  only  thing  that  can  secure  salvation  is  the 
being  built  into  God's  foundation,  the  Rock 
Christ  Jesus.  But  we  shall  be  rewarded  accord- 
ing to  the  manner  in  which  we  have  built  up  the 
structure. 

136 


He  that  judgeth  me  is  the  Lord. 

I  Cor.  iv.  4, 

THERE  are  four  courts  of  trial. 

First :  Man's  judgment. — It  is  significantly 
spoken  of  as  man's  **day."  Our  conduct  is 
narrowly  scrutinized  and  weighed  by  many  eyes 
which  we  know  not  of,  but  which  are  fixed  on 
every  act  and  word — the  eyes  of  our  neighbors, 
associates,  fellow-work  people,  servants.  They  are 
ever  reasoning  about  us,  comparing  our  lives  with 
our  professions,  partly  with  the  view  of  excusing 
themselves,  if  there  is  any  gross  inconsistency. 
But,  after  all,  their  verdict  need  not  greatly  move 
us.     It  is  only  for  a  day. 

Second  :  The  judgment  of  fellow-  Christians. 
— We  are  perpetually  being  summoned  before  the 
court  of  the  church  circle  to  which  we  belong ; 
not  always  because  we  are  inconsistent  with  our 
professions,  but  whenever  we  overstep  the  pace  at 
which  the  majority  is  slowly  moving.  To  be  too 
zealous,  too  eager,  too  earnest,  too  particular,  will, 
in  some  Christian  communities,  expose  to  a  great 
deal  of  adverse  criticism.  But  we  have  not  to 
look  right  and  left  to  get  the  sentence  of  our  fel- 
low-believers when  we  are  clearly  prompted  by 
the  Spirit  of  God. 

Third  :  Thejudg7nent  of  conscience. — "  I  judge 
not  mine  own  self."  We  are  all  apt  to  arraign 
ourselves  at  our  own  bar,  and  pass  verdicts  which 
are  altogether  favorable,  because  we  compare  our- 
selves with  characters  and  standards  inferior  to 
ourselves.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  judge  yourself, 
for  even  if  you  score  a  favorable  verdict — if  you 
know  nothing  against  yourself — it  is  liable  to  be 
reversed  by  the  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court. 

Fourth  :  The  Lord' s  judgment. — The  Lord  will 
come,  bringing  to  light  the  hidden  things  of  dark- 
ness, and  making  manifest  the  counsels  of  the 
heart. 

137 


Christ  our  passover  is  sacrificed  for  us  ;  there- 
fore let  us  keep  the  feast.  i  Cor.  v.  7,  8. 

AT  the  time  of  the  first  Passover,  outside,  as 
the  ominous  midnight  hour  approached,  Egypt 
gave  herself  up  to  her  usual  life.  "  They  ate  and 
drank;  they  married  and  gave  in  marriage." 
But  within  their  homes,  the  children  of  Israel 
stood  around  their  tables,  their  loins  girt,  their 
staves  in  their  hands,  with  unleavened  bread 
packed  up  with  their  kneading-troughs  in  their 
clothes,  waiting  for  the  signal  to  depart.  The 
Passover  Lamb  had  been  sacrificed ;  its  blood 
was  on  the  door ;  whilst  its  flesh,  roast  with  fire, 
was  being  eaten.  For  seven  days,  all  unleavened 
bread  had  been  put  away  out  of  the  houses  of  the 
chosen  people,  because  leaven,  in  the  Bible,  is 
the  symbol  of  the  working  of  the  corrupt  prin- 
ciple. 

The  believer  should  look  back. — The  Paschal 
Lamb  was  sacrificed  for  us  on  the  cross.  Though 
He  had  done  no  sin,  and  was  without  blemish, 
yet  He  was  slain  for  us  without  the  gates  of  the 
city.  He  made  there  a  sufficient  sacrifice,  satis- 
faction, oblation,  for  the  sins  of  the  whole  world. 

The  believer  should  look  around. — With  lighted 
candle,  search  the  heart  of  your  house,  that  there 
may  be  no  speck  or  mote  of  leaven.  Let  us  keep 
the  perpetual  feast  of  the  Christian  life,  not  with 
old  leaven,  nor  with  the  leaven  of  malice  and 
wickedness,  but  with  the  unleavened  bread  of 
sincerity  and  truth. 

The  believer  should  look  on. — Soon  we  shall 
hear  the  midnight  trumpet  sound,  "Arise  and 
depart,  for  this  is  not  your  rest !  "  and  we  shall 
go  forth  from  Egypt,  where  we  have  suffered,  and 
toiled,  and  been  misunderstood ;  where  also  our 
Lord  was  crucified.  It  is  but  a  little  while  (how 
little,  how  little  !)  and  He  that  shall  come  will 
come,  and  will  not  tarry. 
138 


Know  ye  not  that  your  body  is  the  temple  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  which  is  in  you  ?  i  Cor.  vi.  ig. 

THIS  is  a  sentence  which  should  be  deeply- 
pondered;  every  clause  is  significant.  We  evi- 
dently should  know  its  deep  and  solemn  mean- 
ing. Apparently  it  is  one  of  the  common- 
places of  our  holy  religion.  This  knowledge, 
however,  should  not  be  merely  that  of  the  in- 
tellect, but  born  out  of  the  deep  musing  of  the 
heart. 

The  holy  temple. — Built  up  of  the  dust  of  the 
earth,  our  bodies  are  rarer  than  the  most  glorious 
structures  that  ever  the  sun  shone  on,  because 
they  are  meant  to  be  the  shrine  and  home  of  God. 
Jesus  spake  of  the  Temple  of  His  Body ;  and  if 
He  was  so  zealous  for  His  Father's  House  that 
He  drove  out  the  unholy  traffickers,  and  refused 
to  allow  a  vessel  to  be  carried  through  the  courts, 
should  we  not  be  equally  careful  ?  We  are  the 
custodians  of  the  Divine  residence ;  let  us  be  very- 
careful  that  there  be  nothing  to  offend  or  trouble 
the  celestial  Inmate. 

The  Divine  Inmate. — Too  often  He  is  grieved, 
and  driven  to  occupy  the  most  secret  shrine,  con- 
cealed and  hidden  beneath  the  heavy  vail  of  our 
inconsistency  and  unbelief.  He  is  not  driven 
out  by  our  sins,  but  driven  in.  Whenever,  on 
the  contrary,  we  put  away  our  sin,  and  walk  in 
the  light  as  He  is  in  the  light ;  whenever  the  vail 
is  rent  and  the  whole  heart  thrown  open  to  Him 
— He  comes  in  power  to  occupy  every  part  of  our 
being,  so  that  there  is  no  part  dark,  and  the  very 
body  becomes  transfigured. 

The  great  price. — Bought  as  any  slave  standing 
in  the  market-place  for  sale  !  Ransomed  from  the 
direst  slavemaster  to  the  dearest  Lord  !  The  price 
— not  corruptible  things,  as  silver  and  gold — but 
precious  blood  !  Our  life  is  henceforth  not  our 
own,  but  His. 

139 


Let  every  inan^  wherei?i  he  is  called,  therein  abide 
with  God.  I  Cor.  vii.  24. 

STRONG  temptations  to  restlessness  beset  the 
early  Christians.  The  great  change  through  which 
they  had  passed  from  heathenism  to  Christ  threat- 
ened to  dissolve  all  the  ties  by  which  they  had 
been  held,  in  the  home,  the  business,  and  the 
State.  Very  necessary  and  wholesome,  therefore, 
was  the  apostle's  advice.  Stay  as  you  are,  until 
God  clearly  leads  you  into  something  else — only 
with  this  difference,  whatever  be  the  vocation  of 
your  life,  therein  abide  with  God.  Paul  was  only 
careful  that  the  thought  of  God  should  penetrate 
their  entire  existence ;  all  else  would  come  right 
in  time ;  and  he  was  only  anxious  that  they  should 
be  laid  hold  of  by  that  central,  vivifying,  trans- 
muting influence. 

Practice  the  presence  of  God. — A  godly  brother 
used  to  say  that  we  should  establish  ourselves  in 
a  sense  of  God's  presence  by  an  act  of  the  will, 
which  put  aside  wandering,  frivolous,  and  evil 
thoughts,  and  that  we  should  be  continually  con- 
versing with  Him;  that  we  ought  to  give  our- 
selves up  to  God,  making  Him  the  end  of  all  our 
actions,  and  seeking  our  only  satisfaction  in  doing 
His  will ;  and  that  even  the  set  times  of  prayer 
should  not  greatly  differ  from  other  times,  because 
all  were  equally  filled  with  God. 

Such  a  sense  equalizes  our  lot. — ^The  slave  real- 
izes that  he  is  God's  free  man  ;  the  master  that 
he  is  God's  slave.  The  poor  are  enriched,  and 
the  rich  are  convicted  of  their  poverty.  So  this 
holy  brother  said  that,  in  his  business  in  the 
kitchen  (to  which  naturally  he  had  a  great  aver- 
sion), having  accustomed  himself  to  do  every- 
thing there  for  the  love  of  God  and  with  prayer, 
he  had  found  everything  easy,  and  was  very  well 
pleased  to  continue  in  the  same  post  so  long  as  it 
was  God's  will. 

140 


If  meat  viaketh  my  brother  to  stumble,  I  will  eat 
no  flesh  for  ever  more.  i  Cor.  viii.  ij  (r.  v.). 

THERE  are  two  principles  for  our  guidance  in 
doubtful  and  debatable  questions.  First,  the  law 
of  conscience.  The  apostle  does  not  hesitate  to 
say  that  the  scruples  of  the  weaker  brethren  were 
unquestionably  needless.  Idols  have  no  real  ex- 
istence, and  the  presentation  of  food  in  their  pres- 
ence before  it  is  eaten  is  a  matter  of  complete  in- 
difference. ' '  If  we  eat,  we  are  not  the  better ;  if 
we  eat  not,  we  are  not  the  worse."  At  the  same 
time,  if  a  man  were  not  able  to  reach  this  high 
standard,  and  still  believed  that  an  idol  had  a 
real  existence,  and  that  it  was  wrong  for  him  to 
partake  of  food  which  had  been  offered  to  it,  he 
must  abide  by  that  decision,  and  must  on  no  ac- 
count force  himself  to  more  liberal  action.  His 
conscience  might  be  misinformed,  and  he  should 
take  every  means  of  bringing  it  to  a  more  healthy 
condition ;  but  if  it  still  remained  stationary,  he 
must  accept  its  ruling. 

Secondly,  the  law  of  charity.  We  must  con- 
sider one  another.  No  one  liveth  to  himself.  We 
are  members  of  the  body  of  Christ,  and  have  no 
right  to  injure  any  who  are  so  closely  allied  with 
us,  and  on  whose  healthy  existence  our  own  ma- 
terially depends.  If,  then,  we  see  that  certain 
other  souls  are  constantly  being  caused  to  stumble, 
because  of  what  we  do ;  not  simply  surprised  and 
startled,  but  actually  made  to  sin  ;  trying  to  do  as 
we  do,  but  as  often  as  they  attempt  it,  falling 
short ;  unable  to  take  our  steep  path  without  fall- 
ing ;  always  brought  into  condemnation  when  in 
our  company;  there  is  no  alternative — for  their 
sakes  we  must  forego  what  is  innocent  and 
pleasant  to  ourselves.  It  may  be  a  daily  glass 
of  wine,  or  attendance  at  some  form  of  amuse- 
ment, pr  some  evil  habit — but  the  love  of  Christ 
forbids. 

141 


Lest  I  myself  should  be  a  castaway. 

I  Cor.  ix.  2^. 

IS  it  for  one  moment  to  be  supposed  that  Paul 
really  feared  being  cast  away  from  the  love  and 
presence  of  God  into  the  outer  darkness  with  its 
weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth  ?  Surely  not !  Had 
he  not  said  unmistakably  that  nothing  could  avail 
to  separate  him  from  the  love  of  God  which  was 
in  Jesus  Christ !  No,  it  is  impossible  to  think 
such  a  thing.  He  knew  too  well  that  none  of 
Christ's  members  can  be  amputated  ;  none  of  His 
sheep  perish. 

"  The  soul  that  to  Jesus  has  fled  for  repose, 
He  will  not,  He  cannot,  desert  to  its  foes; 
That  soul,  though  all  hell  should  endeavor  to  take, 
He'll  never — no,  never — no,  never  forsake." 

But  when  the  apostle  speaks  of  being  a  cast- 
away, he  means  that  he  feared  lest,  after  having 
proclaimed  the  rules  of  the  contest  to  others,  he 
should  himself  fail  shamefully  of  the  prize.  And 
what  was  that  prize  ?  Certainly  not  forgiveness, 
nor  eternal  life ;  because  these  are  not  procured 
by  any  efforts  of  our  own.  These  are  not  the 
prizes  of  agility  or  strength,  but  the  gift  of  God, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  What,  then,  is 
the  prize  ?  The  context  reveals  it.  It  is  surely 
the  guerdon  of  winning  souls ;  the  blessed  joy  and 
crown  of  bringing  to  Jesus  those  who  had  other- 
wise never  known  Him. 

But  we  may  fall  short  of  this.  We  may  set 
others  to  do  what  we  fail  to  do.  We  may  appear 
before  Christ  with  handfuls  of  withered  leaves. 
We  may  yet  be  rejected.  Esau  missed  the  crown 
of  his  birthright ;  Moses  the  Promised  Land ; 
Saul  the  founding  of  a  line  of  kings.  We  may 
miss  utterly  and  irretrievably.  God  help  us  to 
watch  and  pray,  and  bring  the  body  into  subjec- 
tion ! 

142 


The  profit  of  the  ma?iy,  that  they  may  he  saved. 

I  Cor.  X.  33. 

PROBABLY  the  world  has  never  seen  a  more 
enthusiastic  soul-winner  than  the  great  apostle. 
If  he  visits  a  strange  town,  he  will  cast  out  the 
demon  from  a  possessed  girl.  If  he  takes  up  tent- 
making,  beside  an  unbelieving  Jew  and  his  wife, 
he  will  before  long  have  won  each  for  Christ.  If 
he  is  cast  ii.io  prison,  he  will  have  baptized  the 
jailer  before  dawn.  If  he  stands  before  a  judge, 
he  will  almost  persuade  him  to  be  a  Christian. 
If  he  is  a  prisoner  in  a  hired  house,  he  will  speak 
to  all  who  come  to  him,  and  win  a  runaway  slave 
like  Onesimus  to  Christ,  and  make  him  profitable 
to  Philemon.  Always  and  everywhere,  he  sets 
himself  to  win  souls. 

Here,  also,  we  see  how  this  one  passion  ruled 
his  behavior  in  all  things.  He  was  willing  to 
yield  to  men  in  matters  where  only  his  own  com- 
fort, but  not  his  conscience,  was  concerned.  He 
sought  to  please  all  men  in  all  things ;  not  seek- 
ing his  own  profit,  but  ''the  profit  of  the  many, 
that  they  may  be  saved." 

Oh  for  more  of  this  sacred  passion  ! — such  as 
inspired,  for  instance,  the  Moravians  to  expatriate 
themselves  for  the  sake  of  the  lepers  of  Table  Bay  ! 

A  woman  at  the  Presbyterian  hospital  at  Can- 
ton, hearing  of  Christ,  and  loving  Him,  asked  : 

''How  long  can  I  live  if  I  remain  in  the  hos- 
pital?" 

"Four  months." 

"  And  how  long  if  I  go  home  ?  " 

"Two  months,"  replied  the  doctor. 

"  I  am  going  home,"  she  said. 

"But,"  urged  the  doctor,  "  you  will  lose  half 
your  life." 

"Do  you  not  think  I  would  be  glad  to  give 
half  my  life  for  the  sake  of  telling  my  people  of 
Jesus?" 

And  she  went  home. 

143 


Eateth  and  drinketh  judgment  uiito  himself,  if 
he  discern  not  the  body.  i  Cor.  xi.  2g  (r.  v.). 

HOW  many  humble  and  earnest  souls  this 
verse,  as  rendered  in  the  a. v.,  has  kept  from  the 
blessed  enjoyment  of  the  Lord's  Table !  They 
did  not  understand  the  nature  of  the  sin  which 
the  apostle  was  describing;  they  were  terrified 
by  the  word  damnatio?i,  and  they  felt  that  it 
were  better  to  forego  the  privilege  than  risk  the 
peril. 

The  difficulties  will,  however,  largely  disappear, 
when  we  understand  the  disorders  that  disgraced 
the  Corinthian  Church,  and  which  arose  from  the 
abuses  of  the  love-feast  which  preceded  the  Lord's 
Supper.  At  that  repast  each  disciple  was  ex- 
pected to  put  the  provisions  he  had  brought  with 
him  into  a  common  stock,  from  which  all  shared 
alike.  But  at  Corinth,  the  rich  and  their  friends 
ate  of  their  luxuries  ;  whilst  the  poor  were  allowed 
to  go  without.  After  such  an  introduction,  the 
Church  could  not  approach  the  Lord's  Table 
with  that  appreciation  of  the  solemnity  and 
tenderness  of  the  ordinance  which  could  alone 
consist  with  the  holy  memories  of  the  betrayal 
night. 

The  eating  and  drinking  unworthily  arose  from 
not  discerning  the  Body.  This  does  not  refer  to 
the  Lord's  Body  which  was  broken  for  us ;  but  to 
His  Body  the  Church.  ''The  bread  which  we 
break,  is  it  not  a  communion  of  the  body  of  Christ, 
seeing  that  we,  who  are  many,  are  one  bread,  one 
body?"  (i  Cor.  x.  i6,  17).  We  eat  and  drink 
unworthily  when  we  fail  to  discern  that  the  poor, 
and  weak,  and  simple,  who  belong  to  Jesus,  be- 
long also  to  us ;  that  they  are  members  with  us ; 
and  that  we  are  bound  to  share  our  gifts  and 
graces  with  them  for  the  glory  of  our  common 
Lord.  The  one  thing  which  disqualifies  us  from 
joining  in  this  feast  of  dying  love  is  our  refusal  to 
feel  and  manifest  love  to  all  in  the  Body. 
144 


No  man  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by 
the  Holy  Ghost.  i  Cor.  xU.  j. 

JESUS  is  Saviour,  but  is  He  Lord?  Hast 
thou  yielded  to  Him  the  Lordship  ?  Nothing 
short  of  this  will  give  thee  true  peace  and  power. 
Thou  must  be  brought  to  say  with  the  psalmist, 
*'  Other  lords  beside  Thee  have  had  dominion 
over  me ;  but  by  Thee  only  will  I  make  mention 
of  Thy  name." 

Jesus  must  be  Lord  of  thy  heart;  every  affec- 
tion must  be  brought  under  His  most  wise  and 
loving  control.  He  must  be  Lord  of  thy  home, 
so  that  no  conversation  may  be  indulged,  no  rec- 
reation set  afoot,  no  society  entertained,  which 
is  inconsistent  with  His  character  and  claims.  He 
must  be  Lord  of  thy  business  and  its  returns,  so 
that  thou  shalt  live  in  perpetual  communication 
with  Him,  along  the  lines  of  the  Heavenly  Tele- 
phone; and  in  the  use  of  all  its  proceeds  He 
must  have  the  supreme  voice.  He  must  be  Lord 
of  thy  plans.  It  is  for  Him  to  say  Go,  or  Come, 
or  Do  this.  That  was  a  true  message  which 
Ahasuerus  sent  through  the  good  Ezra  to  the  Jew- 
ish people:  ''Whatsoever  is  commanded  by  the 
God  of  heaven,  let  it  be  done  exactly  for  the 
house  of  the  God  of  heaven."  I  liked  that  word 
exactly. 

But  this  perpetual  recognition  of  the  Lordship 
of  Jesus  is  only  possible  to  those  who  have  yielded 
their  entire  nature  to  the  gracious  influences  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  who  loves  to  glorify  Christ. 
Dost  thou  seek  the  attitude  of  consecration  which 
thus  honors  thy  Lord  ?  Then  let  the  Holy  Spirit 
work  it  for  thee !  Wouldst  thou  have  it  main- 
tained ?  Let  Him  maintain  it !  And  if  thou 
askest  thyself,  whether  thou  hast  received  the 
Pentecostal  endowment,  be  sure  that  thou  hast,  if 
with  all  thine  heart  thou  sayest  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father.  This  is 
the  certain  test. 

145 


The  greatest  of  these  is  love. 

I  Cor.  xiii.  ij  (r.  v.). 

WHAT  a  light  must  have  shone  on  the  apos- 
tle's face  as  he  broke  into  this  exquisite  idyll,  this 
perfect  poem  of  love  !  The  change  in  tone  and 
rhythm  must  have  caused  his  amanuensis  to  look 
suddenly  up  into  his  master's  face,  and  lo  !  it  was 
as  the  face  of  an  angel.     Why  is  love  greatest  ? 

Because  it  is  the  crown  of  the  other  two,  and 
includes  them. — Faith  is  the  root;  hope  is  the 
stem;  love  the  perfect  flower.  You  may  have 
faith  without  hope,  and  hope  without  love ;  but 
you  cannot  have  love  apart  from  faith  and  hope. 

Because  it  is  likes t  God. — God's  nature  is  not 
specially  characterized  by  faith,  because  there  is 
no  uncertainty  with  His  perfect  knowledge ;  nor 
by  hope,  because  there  is  no  future  to  His  eternal 
existence.  But  God  is  love ;  and  to  love  is  to  re- 
semble Him. 

Because  it  will  immeasurably  outlast  the  other 
two. — Human  knowledge,  at  best  but  the  spellings 
of  babes,  will  vanish  in  the  perfect  light  of 
heaven.  Eloquence  will  seem  like  the  lispings  of 
infancy.  Prophecies  will  have  no  place,  because 
all  the  landscape  of  the  future  will  be  revealed. 
Faith  and  hope  will  be  lost  in  realization.  Love 
only  is  forever. 

Because  love  brings  the  purest  rapture. — 
''Where  is  heaven?"  asked  a  wealthy  Christian 
of  his  minister.  ''I  will  tell  you  where  it  is," 
was  the  quick  reply  :  ''if  you  will  go  to  the  store, 
and  buy  jP^io  worth  of  provisions  and  necessaries, 
and  take  them  to  that  poor  widow  on  the  hillside, 
who  has  three  of  her  children  sick.  She  is  poor, 
and  a  member  of  the  Church.  Take  a  nurse,  and 
some  one  to  cook  the  food.  When  you  get  there, 
read  the  twenty-third  Psalm,  and  kneel  by  her 
side  and  pray.  Then  you  will  find  out  where 
heaven  is." 

146 


There  are,  it  may  be,  so  many  kinds  of  voices  in 
the  world.  i  Cor.  xiv.  70  (R.  v.). 

THERE  are  the  voices  of  nature. — The  deep 
bass  of  the  ocean  wave  booming  along  the  shore ; 
the  crash  of  the  ice;  the  silver  choirs  of  the 
stars ;  the  song  of  bird,  hum  of  bee,  shrill  trum- 
pet of  gnat,  the  rustle  of  the  leaves,  the  patter  of 
the  rain,  the  chorus  of  the  hailstones — how  varied, 
and  charming,  and  musical !  No  doubt  if  we 
could  listen  to  all  these  from  a  distance  we  should 
detect  perfect  chords. 

There  are  the  voices  of  human  life. — First,  the 
mother's;  then  of  the  brothers  and  sisters  of 
our  home  (and  sad  is  the  lot  of  the  lonely- 
child  which  has  none)  ;  then  of  the  teacher,  the 
minister,  the  friend,  the  lover,  not  one  could  be 
spared  ;  not  one  that  has  not  a  significance ;  not 
one  to  whose  words  we  shall  not  do  well  to  give 
heed. 

There  are  the  voices  of  our  daily  lot. — Now  we 
are  called  to  experience  joy,  now  sorrow,  now 
gain,  and  now  loss  ;  now  of  the  harsh  reprimand 
of  disaster ;  now  of  the  tender  assurances  of 
sunny  hours.  Behind  all  these  God  is  speaking. 
Listen,  therefore,  heedfully  to  all,  and  try  to  ac- 
quire the  lesson  He  is  longing  to  inculcate.  What 
is  He  saying  to  you,  by  your  circumstances,  at 
this  moment  ?  Is  it  in  tones  of  pleading,  of  re- 
monstrance, of  blame? 


"  Where  is  Thy  favored  haunt,  Eternal  Voice, 
The  region  of  Thy  choice, 
Where,  undisturbed  by  sin  and  earth,  the  soul 
Owns  Thy  entire  control  ? 


"  'Tis  then  we  hear  the  voice  of  God  withinf 
Pleading  with  care  and  sin; 
*  Child  of  My  Love, 

How  have  I  wearied  thee  ? ' " 

147 


Christ  hath  been  raised  from  the  dead,  the  first- 
fruits  of  them  that  are  asleep,  i  Cor.  xv.  20  (r.  v.). 

WORDS  which  are  altogether  transcendent ! 
How  they  thrill  us  and  inspire  !  What  memories 
they  recall !  How  impossible  is  it  not  to  feel  their 
majesty.  Surely  no  brain  nor  lip  of  man  had  be- 
gotten them !  They  bear  the  mint-mark  of 
heaven. 

On  the  day  that  Jesus  arose,  the  first-fruit  sheaf 
of  the  barley  harvest  was  being  waved  by  the 
High  Priest  in  the  Temple,  as  the  representative 
of  the  myriads  that  stood  stacked  amid  the  stubble 
of  the  fields.  It  was  the  specimen  sheaf — repre- 
sentative, pattern,  and  pledge  of  all  the  rest. 
The  risen  Christ  is  the  pattern  and  pledge  of  what 
His  people  will  be  when  their  bodies  shall  be 
fashioned  anew  in  the  likeness  of  His  resurrec- 
tion. 

He  is  pattern. — His  body  bore  the  same  gen- 
eral outlines  as  before;  so  will  theirs.  It  was 
recognizable  by  those  who  had  known  and  loved 
Him,  even  to  the  tones  of  His  voice ;  so  will  it 
be  with  theirs.  It  was  the  ethereal  and  pliant  in- 
strument of  His  spirit ;  so  will  theirs  be.  It  could 
no  more  return  to  corruption ;  no  more  will  theirs. 
It  was  invulnerable  to  disease  and  pain ;  such  an 
experience  awaits  them  too. 

He  is  pledge. — He  does  not  stand  alone.  He 
is  united  to  us  by  a  myriad  indissoluble  ties. 
What  the  power  of  God  did  for  Him  it  will  do 
for  us.  Those  that  sleep  in  Jesus  God  will  bring 
with  Him,  and  we  that  are  alive  and  remain  shall 
be  caught  up.  There  shall  not  a  hoof  be  left  be- 
hind. Not  one  purchased  body  of  a  saint,  how- 
ever obscure  or  unworthy,  shall  be  excepted  from 
the  effect  of  the  voice  of  the  archangel  and  the 
trump  of  God.  Meanwhile,  in  the  kindly  em- 
brace of  Mother  Earth,  like  the  seed-germs  of  a 
vast  harvest,  the  resurrection  principle  in  the 
bodies  of  the  saints  awaits  the  resurrection  signal. 
148 


Jf  any   man   loveth   not  the   Lord,  let  him    be 
anathema.  i  Cor.  xvi.  22  (r.v.). 

THIS  sentence  reminds  us  of  the  saintly  Samuel 
Rutherford,  of  whose  Letters  the  holy  Richard 
Baxter  said  :  ' '  Hold  off  the  Bible,  such  a  book 
the  world  never  saw."  And  the  late  revered  and 
beloved  C.  H.  Spurgeon  said  of  them:  ''When 
we  are  dead  and  gone,  let  the  world  know  that 
Spurgeon  held  Rutherford's  Letters  to  be  the 
nearest  thing  to  inspiration  which  can  be  found  in 
all  the  writings  of  mere  men." 

Take  this  extract,  because  it  indicates  how  you 
may  come  to  love  the  Lord  Jesus  as  he  did  : — 

"  Strive  to  make  prayer,  and  reading,  and  holy 
company,  and  holy  conference,  your  delight ; 
and  when  delight  cometh  in,  you  shall,  by  little 
and  little,  find  the  sweetness  of  Christ,  till  at 
length  your  soul  be  over  head  and  ears  in 
Christ's  sweetness.  Then  shall  you  be  taken 
up  to  the  top  of  the  mountain  with  the  Lord, 
to  know  the  delights  of  spiritual  love,  and  the 
glory  and  excellency  of  a  seen,  revealed,  felt, 
and  embraced  Christ;  and  then  you  shall  not 
be  able  to  loose  yourself  off  from  Christ,  and  to 
bind  your  soul  to  old  lovers;  then,  and  never 
till  then,  are  all  the  paces,  motions,  and  wheels 
of  your  soul  in  a  right  tune  and  in  a  spiritual 
temper. 

''  But  if  this  world  and  the  lusts  thereof  be  your 
delight,  I  know  not  what  Christ  can  make  of  you ; 
you  cannot  be  metal  for  a  vessel  of  glory  and 
mercy.  My  desire  is  that  my  Lord  would  give 
me  broader  and  deeper  thoughts  to  feed  myself 
with  wondering  at  His  love.  I  would  I  could 
weigh  it,  but  I  have  no  balance  for  it.  When  I 
have  worn  my  tongue  to  the  stump  in  praising 
Christ,  I  have  done  nothing  to  Him.  What  re- 
maineth  then,  but  that  my  debt  to  the  love  of 
Christ  lie  unpaid  for  all  eternity  !  " 
149 


W/io  comforteth  us  in  all  our  affliction,  that  we 
may  be  able  to  comfort,  2  Cor.  i.  4  (r.  v.). 

CHILD  of  God,  think  it  not  strange  concern- 
ing the  fiery  trial  which  tries  thee,  as  though  some 
strange  thing  had  happened.  Rejoice,  inasmuch 
as  it  is  a  sure  sign  that  thou  art  on  the  right  track. 
All  the  saints  have  gone  by  this  road,  notably  the 
writer  of  this  Epistle. 

Its  keyword  is  affliction^  because  written  amid 
afflictions  so  great  that  the  apostle  despaired  of 
life.  It  is  steeped  in  affliction,  as  a  handkerchief 
with  the  flowing  blood  of  a  fresh  wound.  But  in 
this  passage  the  apostle  has  built  himself  a  little 
chamber  of  comfort,  the  stones  of  which  were 
quarried  from  the  pit  of  his  own  sorrow.  He 
blesses  God,  who  had  led  him  into  affliction  to 
teach  him  the  art  of  comfort,  that  by  observing 
how  God  comforted,  he  might  become  proficient 
in  the  art. 

The  world  is  full  of  comfortless  hearts — orphan 
children  crying  in  the  night.  Our  God  pities 
them,  and  would  comfort  them  through  thee.  But 
ere  thou  undertake  this  lofty  ministry  thou  must 
be  trained,  and  thou  must  therefore  pass  through 
the  very  trials  that  they  are  exposed  to.  Now 
watch  how  God  comforts  thee.  Keep  a  diary, 
if  thou  wilt,  of  His  procedure.  Ponder  in  thine 
heart  the  length  of  each  splint,  the  folds  of  each 
bandage,  the  ministration  of  each  opiate,  cordial, 
or  drug.  This  will  have  a  twofold  effect,  in  turn- 
ing thy  thoughts  from  thy  miseries  to  thy  mercies, 
and  in  taking  away  the  sense  of  useless  and  aim- 
less existence. 

There  is  evidently  scope  for  comfort  even  in 
heaven,  for  it  is  said  that  God  will  wipe  away 
tears  from  all  faces.  Oh  thou  that  art  sorrowful 
even  unto  death,  be  sure  that  some  day  the 
Comforter  will  get  the  victory  over  thy  sorest 
griefs. 

150 


''■  .$    '     We  are  a  sweet  savor  of  Christ  unto  God. 

2  Cor.  a.  13  (r.  v.). 

THE  idea  is  borrowed  from  an  ancient  Roman 
triumph,  which  to  the  eyes  of  the  world  of  that 
day  was  the  most  glorious  spectacle  which  the 
imagination  could  conceive.  The  apostle  com- 
pares himself  first  to  one  of  the  prisoners  led  in 
long  chains  behind  the  conqueror's  chariot ;  then 
to  a  servant  bearing  incense ;  and  lastly  to  the 
incense  itself  that  rose  all  along  the  line  of  the 
procession. 

Nothing  touches  the  sense  more  quickly  than 
sweet  odors,  unless  it  be  noxious  ones ;  and  they 
almost  instantly  recall  some  scene  of  the  past  with 
which  they  were  indissolubly  associated.  For  in- 
stance, the  scent  of  new-mown  hay  will  carry  us 
off  to  merry  scenes  in  the  far  away  days  of  child- 
hood. Thus  the  apostle  wished  that  his  life 
might  be  a  sweet  perfume,  floating  on  the  air,  re- 
minding men,  and  above  all  reminding  God,  of 
Christ.  It  was  as  though  he  said,  '*  I  desire  so  to 
live  that  I  may  perpetually  remind  God  of 
the  obedience,  sacrifice,  and  devotion  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  so  that  my  words  and  deeds  may 
recall  to  His  heart  similar  ones  in  the  earthly  life 
of  Jesus." 

A  sweet  savor  of  Christ !  It  does  not  consist 
so  much  in  what  we  do,  but  in  our  manner  of 
doing  it ;  not  so  much  in  our  words  or  deeds,  as 
in  an  indefinable  sweetness,  tenderness,  courtesy, 
unselfishness,  and  desire  to  please  others  to  their 
edification.  It  is  the  breath  and  fragrance  of  a 
life  hidden  with  Christ  in  God,  and  deriving  its 
aroma  from  fellowship  with  Him.  Wrap  the 
habits  of  your  soul  in  the  sweet  lavender  of  your 
Lord's  character. 

The  secret  of  abounding  joy  in  self-sacrifice  is 
the  happy  consciousness,  such  as  Enoch  had,  that 
we  have  pleased  God.     To  have  this  is  to  secure 
deliverance  from  self-consciousness. 
151 


Beholding  as  in  a  glass  (a.  v.).     Reflecting  as  a 
mirror  (r.  v.).  2  Cor.  Hi.  18. 

MOSES  veiled  his  face,  and  the  veiled  law- 
giver was  characteristic  of  the  dispensation  he  in- 
augurated. It  was  a  partial  revelation,  gleaming 
through  a  vail,  expressing  truths  in  rites  and  types 
and  symbols.  But  Christ  has  torn  away  the  vail, 
removed  the  fences  of  the  mount  of  vision,  and 
revealed  to  babes  the  deepest  secrets  of  God's 
heart.  The  apostle's  phrase  is  characteristic  of 
Christianity,  <<  Behold,  I  show  you  (/.  ^.,  unvail) 
a  mystery." 

The  object  of  visio7is. — ''The  glory  of  the 
Lord."  Concerning  which  we  may  accept  the 
statement  of  a  trustworthy  commentator,  that  the 
reference  is  not  to  the  incomprehensible,  incom- 
municable lustre  of  the  absolute  Divine  perfect- 
ness;  but  to  that  glory  which,  as  John  says, 
tabernacled  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  full  of  grace 
and  truth — the  glory  of  loving,  pitying  words  and 
lovely  deeds ;  the  glory  of  faultless  and  complete 
manhood ;  the  glory  of  God  in  the  face  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

The  nature  of  the  vision. — ''  We  behold."  It 
is  true  that  we  cannot  see.  ''  Whom,  not  having 
seen,  ye  love."  But  it  is  also  true  that  the  heart 
has  eyes,  by  which  it  looks  away  unto  Jesus. 
"  Seeing  is  believing,"  is  a  familiar  proverb  among 
men ;  but  ''  believing  is  seeing  "  is  a  true  aphorism 
of  the  spirit  which  chngs  to  the  Lord  by  its  faith 
and  love. 

The  effect  of  the  vision. — First,  we  reflect. 
The  beauty  of  His  face  glancing  on  ours  will  be 
mirrored,  as  a  man's  eye  will  contain  a  tiny  min- 
iature picture  of  what  he  is  beholding.  7 hen  we 
shall  be  changed.  If  you  try  to  represent  Jesus  in 
your  character  and  behavior,  you  will  become 
transfigured  into  His  likeness.  Love  makes  like. 
Imitation  produces  assimilation.  Reflect  and  re- 
semble. 

152 


While  we  look  .   .   .  at  the  things  which  are  not 
seen.  2  Cor.  iv.  i8. 

WE  are  here  bidden  to  look  through  the  things 
which  are  seen  ;  to  consider  them  as  the  glass 
window  through  which  we  pass  to  that  which  is 
behind  and  beyond.  You  do  not  waste  your  time 
by  admiring  the  frame  or  casket  of  some  rare 
jewel,  but  penetrate  to  the  jewel  itself;  so,  day 
by  day,  look  through  the  material  and  transient 
to  the  eternal  purpose,  the  Divine  idea,  the  deep 
that  lieth  under. 

"All  visible  things,"  said  Carlyle,  ''are  em- 
blems. What  thou  seest  is  not  there  on  its  own 
account;  strictly  speaking,  is  not  there  at  all. 
Matter  exists  only  spiritually,  and  to  represent 
some  idea  and  body  it  forth."  This  is  an  exag- 
gerated way  of  stating  the  old  saying,  ''  Every- 
thing that  is,  is  double."  Both,  however,  illus- 
trate the  affirmation  of  the  text. 

Look  for  God's  thought  in  all  the  incidents, 
circumstances,  and  objects  of  your  daily  life.  Do 
not  stop  at  the  outward  ;  penetrate  to  the  inward 
and  eternal.  Beneath  that  bitter  physical  suffer- 
ing there  are  stores  of  Divine  fortitude  and  grace. 
Beneath  that  trying  dispensation  there  are  celestial 
compensations.  Beneath  those  sweet  family  ties 
there  are  suggestions  of  love  and  friendship,  which 
can  never  grow  old  or  pass  away.  Beneath  the 
letter  of  Scripture  is  the  spirit ;  beneath  the  ordi- 
nance, oneness  with  the  loving  Saviour  ;  beneath 
the  world  of  nature,  the  processes  of  the  eternal 
husbandry. 

When  such  is  the  attitude  of  the  soul,  afflic- 
tions, that  might  otherwise  have  weighed  as  heavy, 
become  light ;  and  those  that  drag  through  long 
and  tedious  years,  seem  but  for  a  moment.  And 
without  exception,  they  all  go  to  produce  that 
receptivity  of  character  that  can  contain  the  far 
more  exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of  glory. 
153 


All  things  are  of  God. 

2  Cor.  V.  i8. 

OF  here  is  equivalent  to  out  of.  All  the 
precious  contents  of  the  Gospel  have  emanated 
from  the  heart  of  God ;  so  that  we  may  say 
with  the  psalmist,  *'A11  my  springs  are  in 
Thee." 

That  we  have  a  building,  a  house  not  made 
with  hands,  eternal  in  the  heavens,  to  which  to  go 
when  the  earthly  house  of  this  tabernacle  is  broken 
up ;  that  it  is  possible  for  the  mortal  to  be  swal- 
lowed up  in  the  descending  glory  of  the  Second 
Advent ;  that  we  have  received  the  Spirit  as 
earnest  of  our  future  glory ;  that  we  shall  be  one 
day  at  home  with  the  Lord ;  that  One  died  for 
all  that  the  dominion  of  the  self-life  should  be  de- 
stroyed, and  that  they  should  henceforth  live,  not 
to  themselves,  but  to  Him  -,  that  it  is  possible  to 
become  a  new  creation  in  Christ;  that  God  is 
already  reconciled  to  the  world  of  men,  and  is 
only  waiting  for  them  to  be  reconciled  to  Him ; 
that  He  hath  committed  to  men  the  ministry  of 
reconciliation,  and  commissioned  them  to  be  His 
ambassadors ;  that  it  is  possible  for  us  to  be  the 
righteousness  of  God  in  Jesus — all  these  things 
have  issued  from  His  heart  of  love. 

Oh  for  a  soul  as  wide  as  the  utmost  circle  of 
the  highest  heaven  that  containeth  all,  to  contain 
His  love  !  Oh,  world's  wonder  !  Oh,  what  a 
sight  to  be  up  in  heaven,  in  *'the  fair  orchard  of 
Paradise  !  "  But  the  very  greatness  of  His  pro- 
visions will  make  our  doom  the  greater,  if  we  re- 
fuse or  ignore  them.  The  men  who  made  light 
of  the  king's  invitation  had  their  city  burned. 
This  is  the  terror  of  the  Lord ;  and  our  duty  is 
to  beseech  men  not  to  put  away  the  reconciliation 
which  God  offers.  Let  the  *'  all  things  "  of  your 
life  be  of  God's  direction,  impulse,  and  inspira- 
tion. 

154 


As  deceivers,  and  yet  true. 

2  Cor.  in.  8. 

THIS  is  the  first  clause  in  one  of  the  most 
wonderful  series  of  paradoxes  in  all  literature. 
Let  us  class  together  these  different  conceptions 
of  the  apostle,  as  held  by  those  who  judged  him 
by  his  outward  and  inward  life  respectively. 

Judged  from  the  view-point  of  this  age  he  was  a 
deceiver,  intent  on  some  purpose  of  his  own,  mis- 
leading and  hoodwinking  his  converts.  In  the 
annals  of  this  world  he  was  utterly  unknown,  and 
there  was  no  attempt  to  chronicle  his  doings  or 
record  his  words.  His  life  seemed  to  the  gay  and 
worldly  a  prolonged  death,  whilst  to  his  close  as- 
sociates and  friends  it  was  a  perpetual  chastening. 
Very  sorrowful,  very  poor,  very  destitute — such 
was  his  appearance  as  seen  from  the  outside. 
And  many  must  have  turned  from  it  and  felt 
thankful  that  the  lines  had  fallen  to  them  in  pleas- 
anter  places. 

Judged  from  the  view-point  of  eternity  he  was 
known  to  be  true,  and  building  the  temple  of 
truth.  By  every  new  dying  to  the  world  around, 
his  inner  life  was  being  recruited,  deepened,  and 
purified.  His  sufferings  were  chastening  and 
pruning  him,  that  he  might  bear  more  fruit.  Amid 
his  outward  griefs  he  was  ever  drinking  at  the 
wells  of  purest  joy;  amid  his  poverty  he  was  en- 
riching the  world  with  the  most  precious  wealth ; 
amid  his  utter  destitution  he  was  handling  the  im- 
perishable riches  of  eternity. 

The  monks  of  Chartreux,  when  they  first 
erected  their  monastery,  made  all  their  windows 
look  in  on  the  small  inner  court,  but  had  none 
commanding  the  sublime  mountains  and  glaciers 
around.  So,  too,  many  lives  are  always  contem- 
plating the  trifles  of  earth's  court-yard  !  Oh  that 
such  would  take  into  their  view  the  unseen  and 
eternal ! 

155 


Let  us  cleanse  ourselves  from  all  defilement. 

2  Cor.  vii.  I  (R.  v.). 

THE  closing  paragraph  of  the  previous  chap- 
ter tells  us  what  this  defilement  stands  for  ;  and 
in  the  enumeration  note  the  increasing  bonds  of 
approximation  which  each  word  indicates.  An 
unequal  yoke  in  ill-matched  intercourse  with  un- 
believers leads  to  fellowship,  and  this  to  com- 
munion, and  this  again  to  concord,  and  this  to 
partnership ;  whilst  the  culmination  of  the  entire 
series  is  agreement,  and  the  yielding  up  of  the 
body  for  the  possession  and  indwelling  of  idols. 
Let  us  beware  of  the  beginning  of  this  awful 
approximation.  It  is  impossible  to  stand  still; 
and  they  who  think  lightly  of  marrying  an  un- 
believer may  in  the  end  hear  words  like  those 
which  watchers  heard  spoken  in  the  doomed 
temple  on  the  night  before  it  fell  into  the  hands 
of  Titus.  **  There  was,  as  it  were,  the  rushing 
of  wings,  and  voices  were  heard  saying.  Let  us 
depart." 

There  is  not  only  defilement  of  the  flesh,  but  of 
the  spirit.  It  is  not  enough  to  avoid  the  gross 
sins  of  the  outward  life.  Those  of  the  inner  tem- 
ple and  disposition  are  equally  abhorrent  to  the 
holiness  of  God.  We  must  come  out  and  be  sep- 
arate from  the  latter  as  well  as  the  former,  or  we 
shall  never  realize  what  God  means  when  He 
promises  to  receive  us,  and  to  be  a  Father  to  us. 

The  word  cleanse  is  very  decisive  in  the  Greek. 
It  calls  for  sudden,  decisive  action ;  and  if  you 
answer,  that  sin  is  too  closely  interwoven  with 
your  nature  to  be  thus  summarily  disposed  of,  re- 
member that  God  demands  our  will  only.  Directly 
we  are  perfectly  willing  and  eager.  He  steps  in  and 
does  all  the  rest.  At  unknown  depths  the  Spirit 
of  God  is  at  work  within  us ;  let  us  work  out 
what  He  works  in,  that  we  may  be  welcomed  to 
God's  heart. 

156 


See  that  ye  abound  in  this  grace  also. 

2  Cor.  viii.  7. 

THE  grace  of  liberality  is  as  much  a  gift  of 
God  as  faith,  or  utterance,  or  knowledge,  or  love. 
This  is  implied  in  our  text,  and  distinctly  stated 
in  the  first  verse,  where  the  apostle  says  that  he 
desires  to  make  known  the  grace  of  God,  which 
had  been  given  to  the  churches  of  Macedonia,  so 
that  they  were  able  in  their  deep  poverty  to 
abound  in  riches  of  liberality.  In  the  ninth 
verse  we  learn  that  this  grace  first  dwelt  in  our 
blessed  Lord,  who,  though  He  was  rich,  for  our 
sakes  became  poor,  that  we  through  His  poverty 
might  become  rich.  If  yours  is  a  grudging,  nig- 
gard nature,  be  sure  to  appropriate  the  royal  na- 
ture of  the  Lord  Jesus,  that  it  may  fill  and  possess 
you. 

Probably  there  is  no  greater  test  of  our  true  re- 
ligion than  our  behavior  in  giving.  How  few, 
comparatively,  give  in  proportion  to  their  in- 
come !  How  few  give  systematically  !  How  few 
have  learned  the  joy  and  luxury  of  giving,  so  that 
they  abound  therein  ! 

This  arises  partly  because  they  do  not  realize 
that  they  are  stewards  of  God's  property,  and 
that  He  expects  them  to  devote  all  they  own  to 
Him,  keeping  back  only  a  necessary  percentage 
for  themselves  and  their  families,  as  a  steward 
might  who  was  farming  an  estate  for  his  absent 
master.  And  partly  it  arises  from  mistrust  of 
God,  and  the  fear  that  some  day  there  may  be 
a  sudden  falling  off  of  supplies.  Oh  that  each 
reader  would  consider  that  all  is  God's,  and  be- 
gin by  always  giving  a  certain  proportion  of  every 
pound,  so  as  to  be  sure  of  not  robbing  God  of  His 
own.  Pray  day  and  night  that  you  may  abound 
in  this  grace  also;  and  then,  in  faith  that  God  is 
answering  your  prayer,  begin  to  do  violence  to 
your  churlish,  niggard  nature.  What  though  it 
protest —  Give .' 

157 


I£e  that  supplieth  seed  to  the  sower  and  bread  for 
food.  2  Cor.  ix.  10  (R.  v.). 

IN  every  harvest  there  is  a  twofold  object. 
First,  the  supply  of  seed  for  the  next  autumn's 
sowing,  and  then  of  food  for  those  that  sow  or 
reap ;  so  in  the  spiritual  sphere  God  will  not  fail 
either  sowers  or  reapers. 

All  sowers  must  eat. — However  much  wheat 
has  passed  through  the  sower's  hands,  he  is  not 
fed  thereby.  At  night  he  returns  hungry  to  his 
home.  So  we,  who  are  engaged  in  the  work  of 
God,  cannot  live  on  what  we  do  for  the  world 
around.  After  the  most  fruitful  day  of  service, 
we  need  to  take  our  Bibles  and  feed  our  famxished 
souls  by  meditation  and  prayer.  We  must  not 
mistake  the  glow  and  exhilaration  of  the  sanctuary 
for  nourishment.  They  are  rather  a  stimulant. 
Therefore  we  may  expect  God  to  increase  the 
fruits  of  our  righteousness.  Shall  Boaz  cause 
handfuls  on  purpose  to  fall  for  Ruth,  and  shall 
not  God  supply  our  need  ?  Will  the  Father  not 
provide  bread  to  those  who  are  engaged  in  tilling 
His  fields? 

All  eaters  should  sow. — It  would  never  do  for 
the  farmer  to  live  on  all  the  produce  of  his  fields. 
He  must  sow  a  certain  proportion  of  his  grain. 
And  nothing  is  more  foreign  to  the  genius  of  true 
religion  than  to  be  always  nursing  and  minister- 
ing to  oneself;  eating  the  fine  wheat  of  the  Gos- 
pel, but  not  sowing  it  in  other  hearts ;  consuming 
the  consolations  of  the  Divine  Spirit,  but  not 
endeavoring  to  pass  them  on  to  others.  Oh  ye 
who  have  eaten  bountifully,  sow  bountifully; 
else  ye  shall  suffer  the  results  of  spiritual  reple- 
tion and  indigestion.  And  note  this  precious 
assurance,  that  God  will  supply  seed  for  daily 
and  weekly  sowing  for  the  congregation  and 
the  class;  and  that  He  will  multiply  it  when 
sown. 

158 


Brin^in^  every  thought  into  .   .   .  the  obedie?ice 
of  Christ.  2  Cor.  X.  5. 

THE  apostle  is  planning  a  campaign ;  his  words 
glow  with  the  fire  of  military  enthusiasm  :  but,  as 
one  has  eloquently  said,  the  weapons  of  his  war- 
fare are  not  carnal ;  the  standard  under  which  he 
fights  is  a  more  sacred  sign  than  that  of  Caesar ; 
the  territory  he  invades  is  more  difficult  of  con- 
quest than  any  which  kept  the  conquerors  of  the 
world  at  bay.  He  sees  rising  before  him  the 
loftly  fortresses  of  hostile  error;  they  must  be 
reduced  or  razed.  Every  mountain  fastness  to 
which  the  enemy  can  retreat  must  be  scaled 
and  destroyed ;  and  every  thought  of  the  soul, 
which  is  hostile  to  the  authority  of  the  Divine 
Truth,  must  become  a  prisoner  in  the  camp  of 
Christ. 

Be  sure  to  distinguish  between  the  proper  use 
of  the  intellect  by  the  man  who  recognizes  its  nec- 
essary limitations  and  uses  it  in  the  humble  and 
reverent  inquiry  after  truth,  and  that  undue  ex- 
altation of  the  intellect,  which  sets  itself  on  high 
as  the  ultimate  judge  of  truth,  or  which  roams 
wildly,  unheeding  the  Divine  control.  There 
are  vain  thoughts,  sensual  thoughts,  cynical  and 
self-reliant  thoughts,  sceptical  thoughts,  proud 
thoughts,  wandering  and  wayward  thoughts  ;  but 
the  apostle  says  that,  however  strongly  they  fortify 
themselves  against  Christ,  they  should  and  must 
be  brought  into  captivity.  Paul  once  thought  he 
ought  to  do  many  things  contrary  to  Jesus,  but 
became  His  humble  disciple. 

The  intellect  has  its  province,  but  faith  has 
hers ;  and  while  the  intellect  tends  to  exalt  man, 
faith  humbles  him  and  leads  him  captive  in  the 
chains  of  love.  We  must  come  with  absolute 
obedience  to  Christ,  that  every  vail  may  be  torn 
away,  and  whatever  blurs  the  clear  surface  of 
the  mirroring  intellect  may  be  removed. 

a59 


In  perils. 

2  Cor.  xi.  26. 

THIS  enumeration  was  made  before  the  im- 
prisonment at  Caesarea  and  the  voyage  to  Rome. 
How  httle  do  we  know  of  Paul's  life,  after  all ! 
Every  victory  was  hardly  fought  for  and  dearly 
won. 

These  sufferings  attest  the  truth  of  Christian- 
ity.— Whenever  a  doubt  crosses  your  mind  with 
respect  to  the  Resurrection,  or  any  other  Gospel 
fact,  say  to  yourself,  Paul  knew  everything  that 
could  be  said  against  it.  He  was  in  the  secrets 
of  the  Sanhedrim ;  and  if  he  believed  it,  we  cer- 
tainly may.  And  he  had  nothing  to  gain  by  his 
witness.  It  was  to  his  great  loss,  and  the  shat- 
tering of  his  position  in  Israel,  that  he  became  a 
Christian. 

These  sufferings  approve  the  genuineness  of 
Paulas  character. — This  age  is  athirst  for  biog- 
raphy ;  it  loves  to  read  the  story  of  its  great  men ; 
but  sometimes  we  ask  whether  they  are  just  as 
real  and  good  and  pure  as  we  have  been  led  to 
hope.  There  is  one  life  at  least  about  which  no 
such  inquiry  can  be  raised.  The  severest  tests 
may  be  applied  to  this  diamond,  but  it  shines 
only  the  brighter — a  very  Koh-i-noor,  ''A  moun- 
tain of  light." 

These  sufferings  approve  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit. — Such  love  had  He  inspired  toward  the 
Blessed  Lord  in  the  heart  of  the  apostle,  that  he 
counted  the  loss  of  all  things  gain,  and  the  un- 
counted sorrows  of  his  lot  as  light  and  but  for  a 
moment,  if  only  he  might  win  Christ,  and  know 
Him,  and  be  found  in  Him.  You  cannot  explain 
a  life  like  this  apart  from  the  mighty  power  and 
indwelling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  What  a  puzzle 
the  Christian  presents  to  the  world  !  I  remember 
how  a  poor  child  of  fashion  and  sin  kept  asking 
me  once,  <<What  do  you  Christians  get?"  It 
was  quite  impossible  to  explain. 
160 


When  I  am  weak,  then  am  I  strong. 

2  Cor.  xii.  JO. 

WE  need  not  discuss  the  nature  of  Paul's  thorn 
in  the  flesh.  It  is  enough  that  he  calls  it  <*a 
stake,"  as  though  he  had  been  impaled.  It  must 
have,  therefore,  been  very  painful.  It  must  also 
have  been  physical,  because  he  could  not  have 
prayed  thrice  for  the  removal  of  a  moral  taint, 
and  been  refused.  It  came  from  Satan,  permitted 
by  God,  as  in  the  case  of  Job,  to  buffet  his  serv- 
ant. It  is  not  unlikely  that  he  suffered  from  weak 
eyes,  or  some  distressing  form  of  ophthalmia; 
hence  the  eagerness  of  the  Galatian  converts  to 
give  him  their  eyes  (see  Gal.  iv.  15). 

God  does  not  take  away  our  thorns,  but  He 
communicates  sufficient  grace.  He  always  an- 
swers prayer,  though  not  as  we  expect.  Let  the 
music  of  these  tender  words  soar  unto  thee,  poor 
sufferer  !  ''  My  grace  is  sufficient  even  for  thee.'^ 
Sufficient  when  friends  forsake,  and  foes  pursue ; 
sufficient  to  make  thee  strong  against  an  infuriated 
crowd  and  a  tyrannical  judge ;  sufficient  for  ex- 
cessive physical  exertion  and  spiritual  conflict; 
sufficient  to  enable  thee  to  do  as  much  work,  and 
even  more,  than  if  health  and  vigor  were  not  im- 
paired, because  the  very  weakness  of  our  nature 
is  the  chosen  condition  under  which  God  will 
manifest  the  strength  of  His. 

Do  not  sit  down  before  that  mistaken  marriage, 
that  uncongenial  business,  that  physical  weakness, 
as  though  thy  life  must  be  a  failure ;  but  take  in 
large  reinforcements  of  that  Divine  grace  which 
is  given  to  the  weak  and  to  those  who  have  no 
might.  It  is  clear  that  Paul  had  reached  such  a 
condition,  that  it  was  a  matter  of  deep  congratu- 
lation to  him  to  be  deficient  in  much  that  men 
hold  dear,  and  to  have  what  most  men  dread. 
He  rejoiced  in  all  that  diminished  creature-might 
and  strengthened  his  hold  on  God. 
161 


The  Communion  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

2  Cor.  xiii.  14. 

HOW  often  these  words  are  uttered  without 
any  real  appreciation  of  their  depth  of  meaning  ! 
The  word  communion  signifies  having  in  com- 
mon. It  is  used  of  our  fellowship  with  one 
another  (i  Cor.  x.  16)  and  with  God  (i  John 
i.  3).  The  bond  of  such  fellowship  is  always 
through  the  Holy  Spirit.  As  the  ocean  unites 
all  lands,  and  is  the  medium  through  which  they 
are  able  to  exchange  commodities,  so  does 
the  blessed  Spirit  unite  the  Persons  of  the 
Blessed  Trinity  to  each  other,  and  us  to  them, 
and  secures  that  oneness  for  which  our  Saviour 
prayed. 

How  wonderful  it  is  to  have  the  privilege  of 
this  Divine  fellowship  !  That  we  need  never  be 
alone  again  ;  that  we  can  at  any  moment  turn  to 
Him  for  advice  and  direction  ;  that  we  may  draw 
on  His  resources  for  the  supply  of  every  need  ; 
that  it  is  impossible  to  exhaust  or  even  tax  His 
vvilHngness  to  counsel  and  succor ;  that  there  is 
no  kind  of  service  or  suffering  into  which  He  is 
not  prepared  to  enter  with  us  !  Surely,  if  we 
would  but  give  ourselves  time  to  realize  this  mar- 
vellous fact,  there  would  be  no  room  for  the  de- 
spondency which  at  times  threatens  to  deprive  us 
of  heart  and  hope. 

Of  course,  we  must  be  very  careful  of  the  ten- 
der sensibilities  and  holy  disposition  of  our  divine 
Confederate.  We  cannot  ruthlessly  grieve  Him 
by  our  harshness  or  impurity  at  one  moment,  and 
turn  to  Him  for  His  succor  and  direction  at  the 
next.  Such  divine  union  as  lies  within  our 
reach  certainly  demands  on  our  part  watchful- 
ness, a  tender  conscience,  a  yielded  and  pliant 
will,  a  heart  which  has  no  other  love,  no  affec- 
tion nor  idol  inconsistent  with  the  Spirit's  fellow- 
ship. 

162 


//  was  the  good  pleasure  of  God  .  .  .  to  reveal 
His  Son  in  me.  Gal.  i.  75,  ib  (r.  v.). 

IF  you  have  truly  believed  in  the  Son  of  God, 
it  is  certain  that  He,  by  the  Spirit,  has  taken  up 
His  abode  in  your  heart.  But  perhaps  He  is 
hidden  in  the  deeps  of  your  nature,  as  the  young 
Joash  in  the  heart  of  the  Temple.  He  is, 
therefore,  unable  to  exert  that  influence  on 
your  inner  thought  and  outward  life  that  He 
should.  Is  it  not  befitting  that  you  should  ask 
the  Father  to  reveal  His  Son  in  you  ?  He  has 
been  revealed  to  you  as  the  Divine  Substitute, 
but  not  in  you  as  the  source  and  spring  of  holi- 
ness. 

Beneath  the  body  with  its  physical  existence, 
and  the  mind  with  the  play  of  intellect,  lies  the 
spirit  of  man,  like  the  most  holy  place  in  the 
Temple  of  old.  That  is  the  shrine  in  which  the 
Shechinah  of  Christ's  presence  shines,  and  in 
which  we  can  hold  fellowship  with  Him  face  to 
face.  Alas,  that  so  heavy  a  vail  of  unbelief,  of 
absorption  in  the  world  around  us,  of  inattention, 
hangs  between  Him  and  us  !  Would  that  the 
strong  hands  which  rent  the  vail  in  twain  when 
our  Saviour  died  would  rend  in  twain  all  that 
deprives  us  of  this  inspiring  and  most  helpful 
vision  of  the  Son,  so  that  we  might  anticipate  the 
eternal  years  ! 

But  such  revelations  are  only  given  that  we 
may  better  help  others.  Not  for  selfish  enjoy- 
ment, but  for  ministering  help.  Hence  the  apos- 
tle says,  ''that  I  might  preach  Him  among  the 
Gentiles."  Be  pleased,  O  Father,  to  give  us  that 
revelation,  that  we  may  speak  as  those  who  have 
seen  the  great  sight,  and  need  no  further  confer- 
ence with  flesh  and  blood  !  Then,  like  the  apos- 
tles of  old,  we  shall  go  forth  among  men,  saying, 
''  We  cannot  but  speak  the  things  which  we  have 
seen  and  heard." 

163 


I  have  been  c7'7/cified  with  Christ ;  yet  I  live. 

Gal.  it.  20  (r.  v.). 

CLEARLY  Paul  intends  us  to  understand  that 
the  life  of  which  he  was  the  centre  had  been 
nailed  to  the  Saviour's  cross,  and  that  Christ's  life 
had  been  substituted  for  it.  Some  have  spoken 
of  this  real  life  of  Christ  in  the  soul  as  being 
mystical  and  untrue ;  but  there  can  be  no  kind 
of  doubt  that  it  is  the  constant  affirmation  of  the 
New  Testament. 

Death,  the  gate  of  life. — It  is  obviously  so  in 
nature.  Once  each  year  nature  lies  down  in  its 
grave,  sleeps  in  unbroken  repose,  and  steps  forth 
again  with  the  glory  of  a  freshly-renewed  beauty. 
Often  the  overclouding  of  one  faculty  has  been 
the  signal  of  the  quickening  of  all  the  rest.  The 
blind  Milton  becomes  the  author  of  the  ''  Paradise 
Lost."  Death  of  a  twin-soul  will  often  give  to  the 
survivor  a  new  impulse  toward  a  spiritual  and 
transfigured  affection.  We  cannot  be  possessed 
by  the  self-life  and  the  Christ-life  at  the  same 
moment.  And  wherever,  by  God's  grace,  we 
erect  the  cross  and  assign  our  own  life  to  its 
nails,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  will  breathe  life  and 
power. 

In  the  flesh,  but  not  after  the  flesh. — We  live 
our  life  in  the  flesh,  as  aforetime,  doing  the  duties 
of  our  ordinary  existence  with  careful  precision  ; 
but  we  are  no  longer  controlled  by  the  selfish 
principle  which  too  long  dominated  us.  The  at- 
traction of  earth  is  overborne  by  the  mighty  draw- 
ing of  the  eternal  and  unseen.  The  rush  of  the 
whirlpool  is  unable  to  prevail  over  the  throb  of 
the  steam-propeller  within. 

Not  I. — Yet  loved  and  ransomed  by  the  Son 
of  God,  each  of  us  is  distinct  to  His  loving  eye. 
He  does  not  bulk  us  all  together  as  a  mass,  but 
singles  each  out  for  the  gift  of  Himself,  His 
prayers.  His  blood,  His  ceaseless  thought. 
164 


That  we  might  receive  the  promise  of  the  Spirit 
through  faith.  Gal.  Hi.  14. 

''THE  promise  of  the  Spirit"  is  the  in- 
variable term  for  the  special  Pentecostal  gift ;  and 
this  is  to  be  equally  received  by  faith  as  the  for- 
giveiless  of  sins  and  eternal  life.  To  me  this  text 
once  came  as  a  perfect  revelation.  It  was  the 
clue  to  unravel  perplexity,  the  point  around  which 
truth  held  long  in  solution  suddenly  crystallized. 
Before  this  verse  spoke  to  my  heart  it  had  been 
my  constant  endeavor  to  feel  the  Spirit's  presence 
as  the  sign  of  my  having  received;  but  now  it 
became  clear  that  one  might  receive  by  simple  faith 
God's  very  richest  communications,  even  though 
the  emotion  tarried  long. 

The  stages  have  been  thus  specified  : — 

There  is  such  a  blessing. — Yes;  there  can  be 
no  doubt  of  this ;  for  it  pleased  the  Father  that 
the  fullness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  should  dwell  in 
Jesus,  that  He  might  communicate  Him  to  each 
member  of  His  Church. 

//  is  for  7ne. — At  Pentecost  Peter  said,  This 
promise  is  for  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall 
call. 

/  have  not  received. — It  is  very  important  to 
realize  what  your  standing  is.  Paul's  first  inquiry 
of  the  Ephesians  was  to  ascertain  this. 

/  would  give  anything  if  it  anight  be  mine. — Be- 
cause of  the  life,  and  love,  and  power  it  would 
bring  into  your  life,  and  the  immense  increase  of 
power  over  others,  there  is  no  sacrifice  you  should 
be  unwilling  to  make. 

/  do  now  in  humble  faith  receive. — There  may 
be  no  coronet  of  flame,  nor  rush  of  wind,  nor 
flash  of  joy ;  but  if  we  have  put  ourselves  in  the 
right  attitude  toward  God,  and  opened  our  hearts 
to  receive — He  who  taught  us  to  hunger  and  thirst 
must  have  bestowed. 

165 


Until  Christ  be  formed  in  you. 

Gal.  iv.  ig. 

CHRIST  is  in  us,  if  we  truly  believe  in  Him, 
as  the  sap  in  the  vine,  the  air  in  the  lung,  the 
steam  in  the  engine ;  but  He  may  not  be  formed 
in  us. 

Is  it  not  possible  that  the  indefinable  sensation 
of  joy  and  pain,  of  yearning  and  unfulfilled  de- 
sire, are  all  attributable  to  this  deep-seated 
process  ?  Christ  is  being  formed  within  our  hearts, 
dispossessing  the  old  evil  self-life,  and  taking  its 
place. 

"  O  Jesus  Christ,  grow  Thou  in  me. 
And  all  things  else  recede  ; 
My  heart  be  daily  nearer  Thee, 
From  sin  be  daily  freed. 

"  Make  this  poor  self  grow  less  and  less, 
Be  Thou  my  life  and  aim ; 
Oh,  make  me  daily  through  Thy  grace 
More  meet  to  bear  Thy  name." 

The  mention  of  travail  in  this  connection  sug- 
gests that  this  in-forming  of  Christ  does  not  take 
place  apart  from  suffering.  And  probably  it  is  at 
times  when  we  are  in  a  furnace  of  pain  that  the 
Christ  in  us  grows  most  quickly.  ''  When  my 
pain  became  unbearable,"  says  one,  "I  became 
conscious  that  there  is  a  part  of  our  being  which  no 
physical  pain,  and  no  mental  anguish,  can  dis- 
turb. And  there  came  to  me  such  a  sense  of 
God — so  enfolding,  so  assuring,  so  satisfying — 
that  I  could  as  well  doubt  the  shining  of  the  sun." 
The  Comforter  had  come — Christ  was  being 
formed  within. 

In  the  ^gg^  when  first  laid,  there  is  a  tiny  point 
of  life  amid  the  thick,  viscous  fluid ;  but  this 
gradually  increases,  while  the  other  diminishes, 
and  at  last  there  is  hardly  a  trace  of  this  left,  and 
the  chick  is  formed,  the  egg-shell  is  broken,  and 
the  tiny  feathered  thing  steps  forth.  The  chick 
is  formed  in  the  shell. 

166 


Ye  may  not  do  the  things  that  ye  would. 

Gal.  V.  ly  (R.  V). 

THIS  is  a  notable  rendering  of  the  r.  v.,  which 
throws  a  flood  of  hght  on  the  entire  passage. 
The  A.  V.  has  it,  *<  Ye  cannot  do  "  ;  it  is  more 
correct  to  say,  '*  Ye  may  not  do."  It  is  always 
possible  to  go  back  and  to  fall  under  the  tyrannous 
power  of  the  evil  self-principle,  the  flesh,  either 
in  its  more  debased  or  refined  form  ;  but  as  long 
as  we  are  led  by  the  Spirit,  live  in  the  Spirit,  and 
walk  in  the  Spirit,  He  energizes  against  the  flesh, 
keeping  it  in  the  place  of  death,  and  allowing  the 
life  of  Christ  to  work  freely. 

In  Christian  ethics  there  must  be,  first,  a  definite 
willingness  to  surrender  ourselves  to  His  death. 
Secondly,  there  must  be  a  perpetual  yielding  to 
the  indwelling  grace  and  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  He  will  deal  with  the  self-life  in  the  deep 
abysses  of  your  nature.  When  the  antiseptic  in- 
fluence of  carbolic  acid  is  in  the  atmosphere  it 
counteracts  the  microbes  of  disease,  so  that  they 
cannot  do  as  otherwise  they  would  in  infecting 
healthy  bodies  with  disease.  An  eminent  surgeon 
told  me  the  other  day  that  he  was  accustomed  to 
boil  his  operating  instruments  in  antiseptic  mix- 
ture, that  they  might  not  carry  microbes  to  the 
open  wounds.  Oh  that  those  of  us  who  are  used 
as  instruments  by  God  would  take  heed  ! 

When  the  baleful  effect  of  the  self-life  is  ar- 
rested, the  fruits  of  the  Spirit  appear  naturally 
and  easily.  Note  the  distinction  between  work^ 
in  which  there  is  effort,  and  fruit,  which  swells 
so  imperceptibly  and  silently  on  the  branch — 
pressed  out  from  within.  Each  of  these  fruits  is 
a  variation  of  the  first,  which  is  love.  Joy  is  love 
on  wings ;  peace,  with  the  wings  folded ;  long- 
suffering,  love  in  the  sick-room ;  goodness,  in 
business ;  meekness,  in  society ;  self-control,  in 
the  regimen  of  habit  for  the  sake  of  others. 
167 


Let  no  7nan  trouble  me :  for  I  bear  branded  on 
77iy  body  the  marks  of  Jesus.     Gal.  vi.  17  (r.  v.). 

AS  a  slave  was  branded  with  the  initials  of  his 
owner,  so  was  Paul.  It  was  his  pride  to  count 
himself  the  slave  of  Jesus,  and  to  regard  the 
scars  which  had  eaten  into  his  flesh  as  the  brand - 
marks  of  his  Master.  Why  should  men  try  to 
deflect  him  from  his  course,  when  he  was  so  ab- 
solutely implicated  in  the  service  of  the  one  great 
Master,  Christ? 

The  Service  of  Jesus. — It  is  founded  in  His 
blood,  by  which  He  purchased  us  to  be  His  own ; 
but  it  must  be  accepted  by  the  glad  consent  of  the 
will.  We  must  awake  each  morning  as  His 
property,  take  His  commands  for  the  day,  and  lie 
down  at  night,  only  satisfied  when  He  has  said, 
Well  done  !  We  must  own  to  ourselves  that  we 
have  no  personal  rights,  no  locked  rooms,  no  kind 
of  reserve. 

The  Brand  of  Jesus. — The  dislike  which  our 
religion  engenders ;  the  losses  to  which  principle 
compels  ;  the  averted  look,  the  distant  manner  on 
the  part  of  those  who  could  not  make  enough  of 
us  when  we  lived  the  life  of  the  world — these  are 
as  much  His  brand,  the  brand  of  His  Cross,  as 
the  weals  of  recent  scourgings  on  the  apostle's 
flesh. 

The  Peace  of  Jesus. — ''Let  no  man  trouble 
me."  My  heart  has  cast  her  anchor;  my  soul 
her  foundation  ;  my  life  her  aim.  If  He  is  satis- 
fied, I  am  content,  though  the  world  is  in  arms. 
If  He  is  with  me,  I  have  good  company,  though 
all  forsake.  The  Master  said,  ''Trouble  her 
not." 

"  Lord,  as  Thy  temple's  portals  close 
Behind  the  outward-parting  throng, 
So  shut  my  spirit  in  repose  ; 

So  bind  it  here,  Thy  flock  among : 
The  fickle  wanderer  else  will  stray 
Back  to  the  world's  wide-parted  way." 

W.  E.  Gladstone. 

1G8 


Sealed  with  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise. 

Eph.  i.  IS  (R.  v.). 

POSSESSED.— ThQ  saints  have  been  pur- 
chased at  great  cost  by  the  precious  blood  of  the 
Son  of  God.  Not  only  their  spirits,  but  their 
bodies,  have  been  bought  with  an  infinite  ex- 
penditure. Is  it  not  a  wonderful  thought  that 
God  should  have  thought  it  worth  His  while  to 
expend  so  much  on  us  !  But,  since  He  has  done 
it,  we  cannot  suppose  that  He  will  not  make  all 
He  can  of  us  !  He  will  bring  His  estate  under 
cultivation  ;  there  will  be  no  corner  of  it  that  will 
not  yield  Him  produce. 

To  be  redeemed. — Our  bodies  are  owned  by 
God,  but  they  are  not  yet  entirely  redeemed. 
And  if  we  should  die  before  the  Lord's  advent, 
they  will  return  to  their  mother  earth,  possessed 
but  not  redeemed.  Hence  the  apostle  says  that 
we  are  waiting  for  our  adoption — to  wit,  the 
redemption  of  our  body  (Rom.  viii.  23).  We  are 
under  the  sentence  of  corruption  for  Adam's  sin  ; 
but  we  are  to  be  redeemed. 

Sealed. — In  Ezekiel's  day  a  mark  was  set  on 
the  foreheads  of  the  men  that  sighed  and  cried  for 
sin  (Ezek.  ix.  4);  and  in  the  Apocalypse  we 
read  of  the  sealing  of  God's  servants  (Rev. 
vii.  2,  3).  For  sealing  there  are  needed  the 
softened  wax ;  the  imprint  of  the  beloved  face ; 
the  steady  pressure.  Would  that  the  Spirit 
might  impress  the  face  of  our  dear  Lord  on  our 
softened  hearts,  that  they  may  keep  it  forever- 
more  ! 

This  sealing  is  an  earnest  of  our  inheritance. — 
The  eternal  future  is  all  unknown,  yet  we  may 
guess  at  it,  because  the  work  of  the  Spirit  within 
us  is  the  first-fruits — the  grapes  of  Eshcol,  show- 
ing what  the  vintage  will  be;  the  earnest- 
penny,  which  is  the  pledge  as  well  as  part  of 
the  entire  payment ;  the  first  streak  of  the  coming 
day. 

169 


We  are  His  workmanship, 

Eph.  it.  10. 

THE  Greek  word  might  be  literally  rendered 
His  poem.  As  the  metre  varies  in  the  poems  of 
a  laureate,  so  does  the  course  of  one  life  differ 
from  another ;  but  God  has  a  thought,  a  plan,  a 
purpose  for  each.  This  lyric,  that  heroic,  an- 
other dramatic. 

Created  for  good  works. — How  carefully  the 
apostle  defines  the  true  position  of  works  in  the 
divine  life.  In  the  foregoing  verses  he  insists 
that  we  are  not  saved  by  our  works,  that  none 
should  boast ;  but,  as  though  to  meet  the  ob- 
jection that  his  system  was  inconsistent  with  holy 
living,  he  affirms  that  the  whole  intention  of  God 
was  that  we  should  manifest  our  new  life  in 
Christ  by  the  holy  life  in  which  it  fruits.  We 
were  created  in  Him  unto  good  works.  What- 
ever good  works  may  be  demanded  of  you,  dare 
to  believe  that  you  were  created  in  Christ  Jesus  to 
do  them.  There  is  a  perfect  adjustment  between 
the  two. 

The  good  works  prepared. — Our  new  creation 
in  Christ  Jesus  and  the  preparation  of  our  life- 
work  are  due  to  the  same  mind.  God  who  made 
us  has  prepared  our  path  for  us.  It  may  lie  up 
hill  or  down  dale;  may  be  lined  with  grassy 
sward  or  be  full  of  jagged  stones ;  may  be  short 
with  the  years  of  childhood  or  long  with  those  of 
old  age ;  may  consist  in  lying  on  a  couch  to  suffer 
or  in  strenuous  activity — but  every  yard  has  been 
prepared. 

Our  daily  walk. — We  have  not  to  cut  or  make 
our  path ;  but  simply  to  follow  it,  one  step  at  a 
time.  And  when  the  heart  or  flesh  fails,  when 
the  way  seems  too  difficult,  or  the  door  too  strait 
— we  must  look  always  unto  Jesus,  who  has  gone 
along  the  same  track,  asking  that  His  righteous- 
ness may  go  before  us,  and  set  us  in  the  way  of 
His  steps  (Psa,  Ixxxv.  13,  R.  v.). 
170 


To  make  all  men  see  what  is  the  dispensation  of 
the  mystery.  Eph.  Hi.  9  (r.  v.). 

THIS  chapter  is  parallel  with  Col.  ii.  To 
the  stewardship  of  the  apostle  Paul  two  mys- 
teries were  entrusted,  with  the  intention  that  he 
should  unravel  and  explain  them  to  our  race. 

The  mystery. — A  mystery  is  a  hidden  secret. 
The  word  does  not  imply  that  there  is  no  solution, 
but  that  the  solution  has  not  yet  been  communi- 
cated. God  has  many  secrets,  which  unfold  as 
the  ages  are  ripe  for  them,  but  not  before.  This 
secret,  which  was  hid  in  the  Divine  heart  from  all 
ages,  was  that  the  Gentiles  are  on  an  equality 
with  the  Jews  in  the  Church.  Under  the  old 
covenant  they  were  alienated  from  the  common- 
wealth of  Israel,  and  strangers  from  the  covenants 
of  promise ;  but  under  the  new  they  are  fellow- 
heirs,  fellow -members,  and  fellow-partakers  of  the 
blessings  of  the  Gospel. 

The  stewardship  of  the  mystery. — The  apostle 
felt  that  whatever  had  been  communicated  to  him 
was  not  for  himself  alone,  but  for  all  his  fellow- 
disciples.  Hence  he  was  ever  accounting  him- 
self a  steward  of  the  mysteries  of  God  (i  Cor. 
iv.  i).  This  is  the  clue,  also,  to  his  assertion 
that  he  was  a  debtor  to  all  men  for  Christ's  sake. 
What  was  given  him  was  on  deposit  for  others. 
See  to  it  that  you  count  nothing  you  possess 
or  know  as  your  own  ;  look  on  all  as  a  sacred 
trust. 

The  exercise  of  His  stewardship. — "  To  preach 
unto  the  Gentiles  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ, 
and  to  make  all  men  know."  It  is  not  enough 
to  proclaim,  as  a  herald  might ;  we  must  stay 
with  the  dull  of  wit  and  slow  of  thought,  elabo- 
rating, explaining,  and  insisting,  till  we  have  made 
them  see  what  a  Saviour  Jesus  is,  and  how  rich 
the  soul  may  be  that  uses  His  unsearchable 
wealth. 

171 


He  also  descended  first  into  the  lower  parts  of 
the  earth.  Eph.  iv.  g. 

WE  fill  a  cup  or  bucket  from  the  bottom  up- 
ward. And  Jesus  obeyed  a  universal  law  when, 
in  His  desire  to  fill  all  things,  He  first  descended 
into  the  place  of  a  servant,  the  death  of  the  cross, 
the  lowly  bed  of  a  borrowed  grave,  and  thence 
into  the  abyss  of  Hades.  ''  He  descended  into 
hell,"  by  which  we  mean,  of  course.  Hades, 
the  place  of  disembodied  spirits.  If  we  would 
sit  with  Him  in  the  heavenlies,  we  too  must  be 
subordinated  to  the  same  law.  We  must  also 
descend. 

There  is  the  low  place  of  contrition  for  sin. — 
We  must  go  thither ;  lying  in  the  dust  before 
God  ;  placing  the  leper's  covering  on  our  lips ; 
smiting  on  our  breasts.  Be  willing  that  the  Spirit 
of  God  should  reveal  all  the  selfishness,  the 
subtlety,  the  impurity,  of  your  heart.  Let  your 
cry  ever  be  that  God  would  not  spare  your  eyes 
and  heart  from  the  pain  of  knowing  what  you  are 
in  His  sight.  From  this  low  place  you  shall 
ascend  to  the  bosom  of  God.  *'  Blessed  are  they 
that  mourn." 

There  is  the  low  place  of  humility. — Be  willing 
to  take  the  lowest  place  with  no  mock  modesty, 
but  because  you  have  learned  to  esteem  others 
better  than  yourself.  Humble  yourself  under  the 
mighty  hand  of  God.  Be  willing  to  perform 
lowly  deeds  of  service  to  your  brethren  and  sisters 
in  Christ.  Reckon  that  you  have  not  attained. 
Ascribe  all  that  is  good  in  you  to  the  grace  of 
God.  God  giveth  peace  to  the  humble ;  He 
raiseth  up  the  poor  out  of  the  dust. 

There  is  the  low  place  of  death. — The  more  we 
are  delivered  to  the  death  of  Jesus  the  more  will 
His  life  be  manifested  in  our  mortal  flesh.  Life 
through  death,  ascent  after  descent,  the  glory 
after  the  cross  of  shame.  ''If  it  die,  it  bringeth 
forth  much  fruit." 

172 


Be  ye   therefore   imitators   of  God,   as  beloved 
children.  Eph.  v.  i  {k.\.). 

CHILDREN  mostly  resemble  their  father. 
There  is  often  an  unmistakable  family  likeness, 
which  compels  the  most  casual  observer  to  ex- 
claim, "  The  very  image  of  his  father."  Oh  that 
in  each  of  us  there  might  be  that  which  would 
make  men  think  of  God  ! 

Put  away  your  for  77ier  manner  of  life  (iv.  22). 
— The  old  man  stands  for  the  collection  of  habits, 
sayings,  and  doings  which  characterized  our  un- 
regenerate  days.  The  apostle  says  that  they  are 
to  be  put  away  suddenly,  instantly.  Evidently 
this  is  possible,  or  such  a  command  would  not  be 
issued.  Men  speak  of  a  gradual  reformation,  and 
advise  the  piecemeal  discontinuance  of  evil. 
God,  on  the  contrary,  bids  us  treat  the  evil  past 
as  a  company  of  soldiers  would  bandits  and  out- 
laws. There  is  the  greater  reason  for  this,  as  the 
old  man  waxeth  corrupt.  Even  Martha  could  not 
bear  the  opening  of  her  brother's  vault. 

Be  renewed  in  the  spirit  of  your  mind  (iv.  23). 
— We  are  reminded  of  Rom.  xii.  2.  The  mind 
needs  to  be  brought  into  daily,  hourly  contact 
with  God's  thoughts,  as  contained  in  Scripture, 
that  it  may  be  renewed ;  else  our  constant  associa- 
tion with  the  men  and  women  of  the  world,  their 
maxims  and  practices,  will  inevitably  and  sorrow- 
fully deteriorate  it.  The  only  source  of  daily  re- 
newal is  fellowship  with  God. 

Put  on  the  new  man. — Of  this  the  apostle 
affirms  that  it  is  according  to  God,  and  has  been 
created.  Our  Lord  created  this  beauteous  dress 
when  He  rose  from  the  dead.  The  day  of  resur- 
rection was  one  of  creation.  All  the  habits  and 
dispositions  of  a  holy,  godlike  life  have  been  pre- 
pared for  us  in  Him,  and  await  our  appropriation  ; 
and  as  they  are  according  to  God,  so  soon  as  we 
put  them  on  we  shall  become  imitators  of  God  as 
dear  children. 

173 


Praying  at  all  seasons  in  the  Spirit. 

Eph  vi.  i8. 

THE  dying  Monod  regretted  he  had  not 
prayed  more.  We  should  pray  at  all  seasons. 
Prayer  is  never  out  of  place.  There  is  no  con- 
ceivable circumstance  in  life  where  it  would  be 
inappropriate  to  pray.  At  the  wedding  or  the 
funeral ;  as  we  engage  in  work  or  finish  it ; 
whether  the  wind  blow  from  the  cold  north  or  the 
balmy  south — it  is  wise  and  right  to  pray. 
*' Prayer  and  provender,"  the  old  proverb  says, 
**  hinder  no  man." 

We  should  pray  in  the  Spirit.  Reversing  the 
order  of  the  words,  but  bringing  in  their  true 
meaning,  we  might  say,  ''  Let  the  Spirit  pray  in 
the  soul."  It  is  well  in  prayer  to  wait  until  the 
scum  of  our  own  choice  and  desire  has  passed 
off,  that  the  yearnings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  may 
arise  and  manifest  themselves.  We  need  to  be  in 
the  Spirit,  not  only  on  the  Lord's  Day,  but 
always,  that  He  may  be  mightily  in  us,  teaching 
us  the  will  of  God. 

We  should  pray  unselfishly.  "  For  all  saints," 
said  the  apostle,  "and  for  me." 

We  should  watch.  Do  not  give  runaway 
knocks.  Stand  at  God's  door  till  it  opens.  Be 
on  the  alert.  Wait  on  the  watch-tower.  Many 
of  God's  ships  pass  in  the  night,  and  many  of 
His  gifts  arrive  at  the  wharf  when  those  to  whom 
they  were  consigned  are  asleep  or  gone. 

We  should  persevere.  God  keeps  us  waiting 
that  He  may  test  and  humble  us,  and  know  what 
is  in  our  heart.  Delays  are  His  winnowing  fan, 
discriminating  between  the  chaff  and  the  wheat. 
What  we  asked  so  vehemently  we  did  not  ask 
wisely.  When  we  pray  according  to  His  heart. 
He  graciously  sustains  us.  Persevere;  you  do 
not  know  how  near  you  are  to  the  blessing  you 
have  sought  for  years. 

174 


To  you  it  Jiath  been  granted  i?i  the  behalf  of 
Christ  .   .   .   to  suffer.  Phil.  i.  zg  (r.  v.). 

THE  child  of  God  is  often  called  to  suffer,  be- 
cause nothing  will  convince  on-lookers  of  the 
reality  and  power  of  true  religion  as  suffering  will 
do,  when  it  is  borne  with  Christian  resignation 
and  fortitude.  And  how  great  the  compensations 
are  ! 

He  can  keep  in  such  perfect  peace.  He  can 
make  lonely  times,  when  no  one  is  near  the  couch, 
to  be  so  full  of  sweet  fellowship  and  communion. 
He  can  put  such  strong,  soft  hands  under  the 
tired  limbs,  resting  them.  He  can  give  refresh- 
ment to  the  spirit  when  the  body  is  deprived  of 
sleep. 

Every  one  cannot  be  trusted  with  suffering.  All 
could  not  stand  the  fiery  ordeal.  They  would 
speak  rashly  and  complainingly.  So  the  Master 
has  to  select  with  careful  scrutiny  the  branches 
which  can  stand  the  knife ;  the  jewels  which  can 
bear  the  wheel.  It  is  give7t  to  some  to  preach,  to 
others  to  work,  but  to  others  to  suffer.  Accept  it 
as  a  gift  from  His  hand.  Look  up  and  take  each 
throb  of  pain,  each  hour  of  agony,  as  His  gift. 
Dare  to  thank  Him  for  it.  Look  inside  the 
envelope  of  pain  for  the  message  it  enfolds. 
It  is  a  rough  packing-case,  but  there  is  treasure 
in  it. 

And  can  you  not  minister  to  other  sufferers  ? 
Can  you  not  dictate  letters  of  comfort,  or  pray 
for  them,  or  devise  little  alleviations  and  surprises 
for  those  who  have  not  what  you  have  ?  Suffer- 
ing is  on  Christ's  behalf;  it  must,  then,  be  in- 
tended as  part  of  that  great  ministry  for  the  world 
in  which  He,  with  His  saints,  is  engaged.  There 
is  a  sense  in  which  all  suffering,  borne  in  the 
spirit  of  Calvary,  helps  men,  not  in  the  way  of 
atonement  or  propitiation,  of  course,  but  by  the 
exhibition  of  the  power  of  God's  grace  in  the 
sufferer. 

175 


He  was  full  of  heaviness^  because  that  ye  had 
heard  that  he  had  been  sick.  Phil.  U.  26. 

SOME  have  identified  Epaphroditus  here  with 
Epaphras  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Colossians.  Here 
he  is  represented  as  sorrowful,  even  to  agony,  be- 
cause his  friends  had  heard  of  his  illness,  and  he 
would  have  wished  that  no  one  should  be  bur- 
dened on  his  account.  But  in  the  other  epistle 
he  is  represented  as  always  striving  for  the  saints 
in  prayer. 

It  is  very  beautiful  to  discover  his  unwillingness 
to  have  his  sickness  published.  When  we  are  in 
trouble  it  is  best  not  to  speak  much  of  it,  save  to 
God.  *'  Only  inexperienced  sufferers  are  voluble ; 
those  familiar  with  the  secrets  of  anguish  are  si- 
lent." Let  us  anoint  the  head,  and  wash  the  face, 
that  we  may  not  appear  unto  men  to  fast,  but 
to  the  Father  who  is  in  secret ;  and  our  Father 
who  seeth  in  secret  will  Himself  reward  openly. 
The  Comforter  will  draw  near,  will  whisper  His 
own  consolations,  and  amid  much  sorrow  we  shall 
be  calm  and  strong. 

But  with  Epaphras  there  was  probably  another 
thought.  He  knew  that  the  Philippians  were 
bearing  a  very  heavy  load  of  sorrow.  It  was  a 
hard  and  difficult  fight  for  them,  as  for  him.  And 
with  much  generosity  he  was  most  unwilling  that 
the  news  of  his  illness  should  add  a  feather-weight 
to  their  grief. 

This  eagerness  to  conceal  pain,  lest  it  should 
add  sorrow  to  those  who  already  have  almost  as 
much  as  they  can  bear,  is  very  characteristic  of 
noble  souls.  And  we  may  quote  here  Robert 
Hall's  words,  on  recovering  from  a  keen  paroxysm 
of  anguish:  "I  have  not  complained,  have  I, 
sir?  No,  and  I  will  not  complain."  How  much 
of  God's  strength  and  comfort  we  miss  in  our  in- 
cessant endeavor  to  secure  the  support  which  no- 
toriety for  pain  and  privation  may  bring  from  our 
fellows  ! 

176 


The  working  whereby  He  is  able  even  to  subject 
all  thifigs  unto  Himself.  Phil.  Hi.  21  (r.  v.). 

WHAT  cannot  He  do?  From  the  dust  of 
mother  Earth  He  was  able  to  build  up  man  in 
the  image  of  God,  in  the  first  creation;  and 
from  the  dust  to  which  death  shall  again  reduce 
us  He  will  build  up  again  our  bodies  in  the  like- 
ness of  His  resurrection  body.  The  formless 
clay  shall  be  obliged  to  yield  to  His  voice,  His 
touch ;  and  if  He  can  do  this,  what  can  He  not 
do? 

There  may  be  sins  within  your  heart  that  have 
long  resisted  control.  Do  with  them  as  you  will, 
they  still  defy  you.  So  long  have  they  been  en- 
trenched within  the  citadel  of  your  soul  that,  like 
the  Jebusites  in  the  days  of  David,  they  laugh  you 
to  scorn.  But  if  you  will  hand  over  the  conflict 
to  Jesus,  He  will  subdue  them ;  He  will  bring 
them  under  His  strong,  subjecting  hand.  Be  of 
good  cheer.  What  you  cannot  do.  He  can. 
Whenever  the  old  temptation  arises,  directly  you 
are  aware  of  it,  lift  your  heart  instantly  to  Jesus, 
and  reckon  on  Him  to  cope  with  it  in  your  behalf. 
The  Lord  will  fight  for  you,  whilst  you  shall  hold 
your  peace. 

So  with  other  difficulties  in  your  life.  The 
raising  of  a  noble  nature  and  character  within 
you  ;  the  calling  of  souls,  by  your  voice,  from  the 
death  of  sin  to  a  life  of  righteousness ;  the  bring- 
ing forth  of  a  fair  and  well-ordered  work  from  one 
which  seems  mere  chaos  and  ruin — all  such  things 
are  within  the  scope  of  this  wonderful  text.  They 
must  be  easy  to  Him  who  from  the  dust  of  death 
can  raise  a  body  ethereal  enough  to  be  the  home 
and  vehicle  of  the  new  celestial  life,  which  shall 
\mfold  into  perfect  beauty  in  His  presence.  Re- 
peat the  words  until  the  rhythm  charms  away 
your  doubts,  *'  He  is  able  to  subject  all  things  unto 
Himself. ' ' 

1T7 


In  nothing  be  anxious. 

Phil.  iv.  6  (R.  v.). 

BLACK  care  !  It  has  always  been  among 
men,  and  perhaps  more  so  to-day  than  ever,  when 
the  pressure  of  Hfe  is  heavier  and  the  constraint 
of  circumstances  more  imperious.  Are  there  not 
hours  in  which  the  clouds  gather  densely  over  the 
Ark  of  God,  and  the  stoutest  hearts  tremble  ?  Is 
it  easy  for  even  the  Christian  soul  to  look  on  a 
family  of  little  ones,  sleeping  soundly,  and  know 
that  they  will  certainly  awake  hungry  for  food,  of 
which  the  cupboard  is  bare,  and  have  no  tinge  of 
anxiety  ? 

It  is  at  such  times  that  the  apostle  bids  us  pray. 
"Make  your  requests  known  unto  God."  We 
have  not  to  agonize  before  Him,  as  though,  like 
the  priests  of  Baal,  who  cried  and  cut  themselves, 
we  shall  move  Him  by  our  anguish.  Calmly, 
quietly,  simply,  make  your  requests  known. 
Take  your  burden  into  His  presence  and  lay 
it  down  there.  He  is  your  Father.  He  who 
made  the  body,  and  gave  it  you,  will  see  to 
the  supply  of  its  needs.  Your  health,  your  chil- 
dren, the  condition  of  His  Church,  are  dear  to 
Him  who  notices  a  falling  sparrow,  and  by 
whom  the  very  hairs  of  your  head  are  all  num- 
bered. 

We  shall  not  escape  life's  discipline.  We 
may  expect  to  abound  here,  and  to  be  abased 
there.  But  amid  all.  Peace,  God's  white- 
winged  sentinel-angel,  shall  come  down  to  keep 
the  heart  with  its  affections,  the  mind  with  its 
thoughts.  Worry,  unrest,  anxiety,  will  stand 
without,  as  the  noise  of  the  street  breaks  in 
vain  on  the  double  windows  of  the  city  counting 
house,  whilst  the  child  of  God  learns  humbly 
and  patiently  the  lesson  of  his  Father's  love. 
Careful  for  nothing;  prayerful  and  thankful  in 
everything. 

178 


The  riches  of  the  glory  of  this  mystery  .  .  .  which 
is  Christ  in  yoti,  the  hope  of  glory.         Col.  i.  27. 

THE  only  son  of  a  widow  runs  off  to  sea 
when  quite  a  lad.  She  must  needs  work  for  her 
living,  and  takes  lodgers  in  her  little  home.  After 
years  have  passed,  a  bronzed  and  bearded  sailor 
comes  to  her  door  for  accommodation,  which  she 
gladly  affords  at  an  agreed  price.  She  has  no 
idea  who  has  come  to  dwell  beneath  her  roof — it 
is  a  secret,  a  mystery. 

By  and  by,  one  day  as  they  are  sitting  at  the 
midday  meal,  a  remark,  a  gesture,  startles  her; 
she  looks  hard  into  the  stranger's  face,  recognizes 
him,  and,  with  a  cry,  rushes  into  his  arms  and 
weeps  out  on  his  bosom  her  joy :  "  My  son,  my 
son,  what  deceived  my  old  eyes,  that  I  didn't 
know  thee  !  "  That  is  the  glory  of  the  mystery, 
which  breaks  in  smiles  and  kisses. 

Then  he  says,  ''  Mother,  how  hard  life  has  gone 
with  you ;  your  hands  are  hard  with  toil.  But 
see,  I  have  plenty  of  money,  and  you  shall  go 
shares  in  all.  I  will  take  a  nice  little  home,  and 
you  shall  live  there,  to  keep  it  as  long  as  you 
live,  and  never  have  to  do  a  stroke  of  hard 
toil."  That  is  the  riches  of  the  glory  of  the 
mystery. 

So  at  your  conversion  Jesus  came  into  your 
heart  to  abide.  Too  long  He  has  been  unrecog- 
nized ;  but  of  late  you  have  been  made  aware  of 
the  nature  and  worth  of  your  Heavenly  Friend. 
The  mystery  has  broken  in  light.  Henceforth, 
realize  that  all  His  riches  are  yours,  to  be  shared 
and  enjoyed ;  that  all  your  needs  may  be  fully 
met,  even  to  the  abundance  of  His  unsearchable 
riches ;  and  that  there  may  be  an  end  forever  to 
all  the  weary  sense  of  inability  and  incompetence 
to  meet  the  inevitable  demands  of  daily  living. 
Christ  is  in  you  ;  let  His  life  within  reach  out  its 
hands  to  the  life  of  glory  above. 
179 


As  therefore  ye  received  Christ  Jesus  the  Lordy 
so  walk  in  Him.  Col.  ii.  6  (r.  v.). 

WHEN  we  were  first  brought  to  Jesus,  we  re- 
ceived Him  into  our  hearts  by  faith.  Throwing 
open  the  door,  we  bade  Him  be  welcome ;  and 
He  came  in  never  to  depart  again.  Though  He 
was  viewless  as  the  wind,  and  silent  as  light,  He 
came.  And  there  was  a  perfume  as  of  myrrh, 
aloes,  and  cassia ;  like  that  which  fills  the  ivory 
palaces  of  eternity. 

Now  the  apostle  says  that  all  our  after  Christian 
life  is  to  be  lived  on  the  same  principle.  The 
holy  life  is  not  an  attainment,  but  an  attitude. 
Holiness  is  not  an  acquirement  of  which  we  may 
make  a  boast,  but  an  openness  of  soul  toward 
the  Lord  Jesus,  as  of  a  window  unshuttered  and 
uncurtained  to  the  light.  The  believer  is  never 
independent  of  Jesus ;  but  at  every  moment  he 
is  receiving  out  of  His  fullness,  and  grace  upon 
grace.  He  does  not  receive  his  qualities  and  at- 
tributes as  things  apart  from  the  Lord  Jesus ;  but 
receiving  Him,  he  obtains  them.  The  holy  man 
is  he  who  has  learned  the  art  of  receiving  Jesus ; 
the  holier,  who  has  a  greater  capacity,  through 
humility  and  faith ;  the  holiest,  he  w^ho  can  re- 
ceive most  of  the  life  of  the  Son  of  God. 

Our  daily  life  is  here  compared  to  a  walk.  We 
cannot  choose  it.  There  is  no  alternative  but  to 
take  what  God  has  marked  out  for  you ;  though 
you  may  choose  your  atmosphere,  or,  to  use  a 
modern  word,  your  environment.  Every  step 
may  be  taken  in  Christ ;  rooted  in  Him  as  a  tree 
in  rich  soil ;  builded  up  as  a  house  on  a  rock ;  in- 
haling His  very  breath  as  the  life  of  Hfe.  And 
whatever  the  need  may  be  which  the  exigencies 
of  the  path  suggest,  there  is  always  an  abundant 
supply  in  the  Lord  Jesus,  in  whom  all  treasures 
are  hid.  He  teaches  us  that  we  may  know  ;  He 
indwells  that  we  may  be. 
180 


Let  the  peace  of  God  rule  in  your  hearts ^  to  the 
which  also  ye  are  called.  Col.  Hi.  75-. 

THE  peace  of  God  is  the  peace  of  the  Divine 
nature — the  very  tranquillity  which  prevails 
in  the  heart  of  the  God  of  Peace.  It  was 
of  this  that  Jesus  spoke  when  He  said, 
''My  peace  I  give  unto  you";  for  His  own 
being  was  filled  and  blessed  with  it  during 
His  earthly  career.  In  each  of  us  may  be  a  sea 
of  glass,  reflecting  on  its  pellucid  and  tranquil 
bosom  the  untroubled  calm  and  rest,  which 
are  unspeakable  because  eternal  and  Divine. 
'*  The  Lord  of  peace  Himself  give  you  peace 
always." 

There  are  three  things  against  which  we  must 
ever  be  on  our  guard,  lest  they  rob  us  of  our 
peace.  First,  unconfessed  sin;  second,  worry; 
third,  the  permission  of  an  unrebuked  selfish  prin- 
ciple. As  on  the  Sabbath  the  good  Nehemiah 
carefully  excluded  the  Tyrian  fishwives  from  Jeru- 
salem, lest  they  should  mar  its  spirit  of  rest  by 
their  cries  and  traffic,  so  we  must  preserve  an 
unbroken  Sabbath-keeping  within.  ''There  re- 
maineth  therefore  a  Sabbath  rest  for  the  people 
of  God." 

The  apostle  says.  Let  it  rule.  The  Greek  word 
means  arbitrate.  Whenever  there  is  a  doubtful 
issue  to  be  decided,  and  by  one  course  your  peace 
may  be  disturbed,  whilst  by  another  it  may  be 
maintained,  choose  those  things  that  make  for 
peace,  whether  for  yourselves  or  others.  Let 
God's  peace  act  as  umpire. 

At  the  same  time,  this  does  not  mean  peace  at 
any  price.  When  the  cause  of  truth  is  assailed, 
or  the  rights  of  others  invaded,  we  must  stand  up 
boldly  and  strongly  for  Righteousness.  Then  the 
effect  of  Righteousness  will  be  Peace.  Melchiz- 
edek  was  first  King  of  Righteousness,  and  after 
that  King  of  Peace. 

181 


Always  striving  for  you  in  his  prayers  .   .   .  he 
hath  much  labor  for  you.       Col.  iv.  12, 13  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  a  very  beautiful  epitaph  on  a  good 
man's  life.  He  had  come  from  Colosse  with 
tidings  for  the  apostle;  but  amid  all  the 
crowding  interests  of  his  visit  to  Rome  his 
heart  was  with  his  friends,  and  he  sought  to 
help  them,  as  we  may  all  help  dear  ones  far 
away. 

He  strove  for  them  in  prayer.  It  was  no  run- 
away knock  that  he  gave ;  no  light  breathing  of 
desire ;  no  formal  mention  of  their  names  :  but  it 
seemed  as  though  he  were  a  wrestler,  whose  mus- 
cles stood  out  like  whipcord  as  he  agonized  for 
the  prize.  He  labored.  We  shall  never  know, 
till  we  stand  in  the  clear  light  of  heaven,  how 
much  has  been  wrought  in  the  world  by  prayer. 
Here,  at  least,  there  is  mention  of  a  man's  labors. 
Probably  the  work  on  the  results  of  which  we  are 
wont  to  pride  ourselves  is  due  less  to  us  than 
we  suppose,  and  more  to  unrecognized  fellow- 
laborers. 

There  is  a  pretty  legend  which  tells  of  the 
dream  of  a  great  preacher  who  was  marvellously 
used  of  God,  and  inclined  to  magnify  himself 
and  his  gifts;  but  who  was  instructed  by  an 
angel  of  God  that  his  success  was  entirely 
attributable  to  a  poor  widow,  who  sat  regularly 
in  the  free  seats  at  the  foot  of  his  pulpit,  and 
who  never  ceased  to  pray  for  him.  May  the 
writer  ask  of  any  who  receive  benefit  from  these 
words  to  labor  and  strive  for  him  in  prayer  to 
God. 

Let  us  be  careful  to  mingle  much  intercession 
with  all  our  prayers,  especially  on  the  behalf  of 
missionaries  and  lonely  workers  in  foreign  lands, 
that  they  may  realize  that  we  are  actually  work- 
ing and  laboring  beside  them,  though  many  thou- 
sands of  miles  intervene. 
182 


To  wait  for  His  Son  from  heaven. 

I  Thess.  i.  lo. 

OH  blessed  hope !  Is  it  not  wonderful  that 
each  of  the  chapters  of  this  Epistle  brims  over 
with  the  glad  anticipation  of  the  Master's  quick 
return  ! 

We  should  never  lose  this  spirit  of  eager 
longing  and  waiting.  It  hath  the  promise  of 
the  life  that  now  is,  as  of  that  which  is  to  come. 
It  lifts  above  the  darkness  of  the  present  age; 
links  the  present  with  the  great  future;  com- 
forts us  amid  bereavement  with  the  hope  of 
speedy  reunion ;  quickens  us  to  watchfulness 
and  consecration  by  the  thought  of  the  shorten- 
ing of  our  opportunities ;  leads  us  to  purify  our- 
selves as  He  is  pure,  to  gird  our  loins  and  trim 
our  lamps. 

Notice  how  closely  the  apostle  combines  the 
service  of  the  living  and  true  God,  herein  dis- 
tinguishing Him  from  the  dumb,  dead  stones  of 
heathen  idolatries,  with  this  waiting  for  His  Son 
from  heaven.  It  has  been  alleged  that  the  hope 
of  the  Second  Advent  is  a  dreamy,  mystical  senti- 
ment, which  disqualifies  one  for  the  active  fulfill- 
ment of  the  duties  of  life.  Nothing  could  be 
further  from  the  truth.  Those  who  cherish  that 
anticipation,  who  awake  in  the  morning,  saying, 
''Perhaps  it  will  be  to-day";  who  go  to  their 
sleep  whispering  to  their  hearts,  ''Perchance  I 
shall  be  changed  into  His  likeness  in  a  moment  as 
I  sleep,  and  wake  in  my  resurrection  body" — 
these  are  among  the  most  devoted,  strenuous,  and 
successful  workers  of  the  Church.  They  are  not 
recognized  in  the  daily  or  religious  Press ;  but 
God  knows  and  honors  them. 

"  Oh,  blessed  Hope  !  With  this  elate, 
Let  not  our  hearts  be  desolate ; 
But  strong  in  faith  and  patience,  wait 
Until  He  come." 

183 


What  is  our  hope,  or  joy,  or  crown  of  glorying  ? 
Are  not  even  ye  ?  i  Thess.  it.  ig. 

THE  tender  heart  of  the  apostle  suffered  keenly 
in  his  enforced  absence  from  these  beloved  con- 
verts. He  had  cherished  them  as  a  nurse  her 
children ;  he  would  have  gladly  imparted  to  them 
his  own  soul.  Not  once  nor  twice  he  had  sought 
to  see  them  again,  but  had  been  hindered  by 
malign  spiritual  forces  that  were  very  real  to  him. 
He  found  comfort,  however,  in  the  thought  that, 
at  the  Lord's  coming,  they  and  he  would  be  re- 
united, and  that  they  would  be  his  joy,  as  now 
they  were  his  hope.  Now  they  lit  his  hope  to  an 
intenser  passion;  then  they  would  intensify  his 
joy  to  a  more  exquisite  fullness. 

But  there  is  a  further  thought.  The  souls  whom 
he  had  won  for  Jesus  were  to  constitute  his  crown. 
It  was  as  though  they  would  be  woven  into  a 
wreath  like  that  given  to  the  ancient  athlete,  and 
placed  on  his  brow  as  he  emerged  from  the  ter- 
rific conflict  of  his  life — not  to  be  worn  there,  but 
cast  forthwith  at  the  feet  of  his  Lord.  What  an 
incentive  was  this  !  Each  soul  plucked  from  the 
enemy  would  be  another  jewel  for  the  Master's 
crown,  and  herein  a  fresh  source  of  heavenly 
blessedness  to  himself. 

I  remember  Mr.  Spurgeon  telling  of  an  old 
Christian  woman  in  his  almshouses,  who  persisted 
in  saying  loving  thoughts  about  her  beloved  pastor 
to  his  face,  at  which  he  greatly  demurred.  He 
feared  that  she  was  making  more  of  him  than  of 
Christ.  But  she  said  sweetly,  ''It  is  written  in 
the  Song,  '  Thou,  O  Solomon,  must  have  a 
thousand,  and  those  that  keep  the  fruit  two 
hundred  ' ;  so,  dear  pastor,  you  must  have  your 
two  hundred."  Yes,  it  will  be  so;  we  shall  par- 
take with  Jesus  of  the  fish  that  we  have  caught ; 
we  shall  have  fellowship  in  His  exceeding  joy 
over  the  saved. 

184 


No  man  should  be  moved  by  these  afflictions  ;  for 
.  .  .  we  are  appointed  thereunto,     i  Thess.  Hi.  j. 

WE  all  love  the  sunshine,  but  the  Arabs  have  a 
proverb  that  ''all  sunshine  makes  the  desert "  ; 
and  it  is  a  matter  for  common  observation  that 
the  graces  of  Christian  living  are  more  often  ap- 
parent in  the  case  of  those  who  have  passed 
through  great  tribulation.  God  desires  to  get  as 
rich  crops  as  possible  from  the  soil  of  our  natures. 
There  are  certain  plants  of  the  Christian  life,  such 
as  meekness,  gentleness,  kindness,  humility,  which 
cannot  come  to  perfection  if  the  sun  of  prosperity 
always  shines. 

We  often  shrank  from  the  lessons  set  us  at 
school,  and  looked  out  of  the  windows,  longing 
for  the  hour  of  release.  But  now  how  thankful 
we  are  for  the  tutors  and  governors,  appointed  by 
our  parents,  who  kept  us  steadily  at  our  tasks. 
We  feel  almost  kindly  to  the  schoolmaster  or 
mistress  that  we  dreaded.  And,  similarly,  one 
day  we  shall  be  glad  for  those  hard  lessons  ac- 
quired from  the  horn -book  of  pain.  ''  We  have 
had  fathers  of  our  flesh  to  chasten  us,  and  we 
gave  them  reverence :  shall  we  not  much  rather 
be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits,  who 
chastens  for  our  profit,  and  live?  " 

The  tears  of  those  who  suffer  according  to  the 
will  of  God  are  spiritual  lenses  and  windows  of 
agate.  As  the  weights  of  the  clock  or  the  ballast 
in  the  vessel  are  necessary  for  their  right  order- 
ing, so  is  trouble  in  the  soul-life.  The  sweetest 
scents  are  only  obtained  by  tremendous  pressure ; 
the  fairest  flowers  grow  amid  Alpine  snow-soli- 
tudes ;  the  rarest  gems  have  suffered  longest  from 
the  lapidary's  wheel ;  the  noblest  statues  have 
borne  most  blows  of  the  chisel.  All,  however, 
is  under  law.  Nothing  happens  that  has  not 
been  appointed  with  consummate  care  and  fore- 
sight. 

185 


Sorrow  not,  even  as  the  rest,  which  have  no  hope. 

I  Thess.  iv.  ij  (R.  v.). 

NATURE  will  have  her  due.  Tears  will  fall, 
and  hearts  seem  near  to  breaking.  Nowhere 
does  God  chide  the  tears  of  natural  affection ; 
how  could  He,  since  it  is  written  that  "  Jesus 
wept ' '  ?  But  He  sets  Himself  to  extract  their 
bitterness.  Sorrow  you  may,  and  must ;  but  not 
as  without  hope. 

Those  who  die  i?t  Christ  are  with  Him. — They 
are  said  to  sleep,  not  because  they  are  uncon- 
scious, but  because  their  decease  was  as  devoid 
of  terror  as  an  infant's  slumbers.  Believers  have 
all  died  once  in  Christ,  and  it  was  necessary  to 
find  a  word  which,  whilst  significant  of  death, 
was  not  death,  in  order  to  describe  the  moment 
of  our  farewell  to  this  world  and  birth  into  the 
next.  This  word  was  furnished  by  Death's  twin- 
sister  Sleep.  The  catacombs  are  covered  with 
the  brief  significant  sentence,  Obdormivit  in 
Chris  to  (He  slept  in  Christ).  But  just  as  in  sleep 
the  spirit  is  conscious,  of  which  dreams  bear  wit- 
ness, so  in  the  last  sleep.  Absent  from  the  body, 
we  shall  be  present  with  the  Lord. 

Those  who  die  in  Christ  will  come  with  Him. 
— They  are  now  waiting  around  Him  till  He  give 
the  final  order  for  the  whole  heavenly  cortege, 
which  has  been  collecting  for  ages,  to  move. 
The  holy  angels  will  accompany ;  but  the  beloved 
saints  shall  ride  in  the  chariots  of  God  as  the 
bride  beside  the  bridegroom. 

Those  who  die  in  Christ  shall  be  forever  re- 
united with  us  who  wait  for  Him  and  them. — 
They  shall  come  with  Him.  <<God  will  bring 
them."  We,  on  the  other  hand,  if  we  are  living 
at  that  supreme  moment,  shall  be  changed  and 
caught  up  to  meet  Him  and  them ;  and  then,  all 
one  in  Christ,  we  shall  be  forever  with  Him,  to  go 
no  more  out. 

186 


The  God  of  Peace  Himself  sanctify  you  wfiolly. 
I  Thess.  V.  2j,  24  (K.\.). 

OUR  God  has  set  Himself  the  work  of  our 
sanctification.  As  the  Greek  indicates,  He  looks 
upon  us  as  His  inheritance,  and  He  will  not  rest 
until  He  has  brought  every  acre  of  territory  under 
cultivation.  It  is  not  enough  that  briars  and 
thistles  should  be  exterminated ;  they  must  be 
replaced  by  the  rare  growth  of  Christian  virtue, 
which  is  Christ. 

The  work  of  sanctification  is  quiet  and  sileftt. 
— It  is  wrought  by  the  God  of  Peace.  The 
mightiest  forces  of  nature  are  stilled ;  and  when 
God  comes  with  power  into  the  human  spirit 
there  is  often  no  hurricane,  tempest,  fire,  or 
earthquake,  but  the  thrilling  whisper  of  the  still, 
small  voice.  Do  not  be  afraid,  as  though  God 
would  treat  you  roughly.  So  long  as  peaceful, 
gentle  methods  will  effect  His  purpose,  He  will 
gladly  employ  them. 

The  work  is  also  gradual. — We  are  not  made 
faultless,  but  preserved  blameless ;  i.  e.,  we  are 
kept  from  known  sin,  preserved  from  incurring 
perpetual  self-reproach.  "There  is  no  condem- 
nation." I  saw  the  other  day  the  love-letter  of  a 
little  boy  to  his  father.  It  was  anything  but 
faultless  ;  but  the  father,  at  least,  did  not  count 
it  worthy  of  blame,  since  he  carried  it  next  his 
heart.  So  we  are  not  to  be  faultless,  as  judged 
by  God's  perfect  standard,  till  we  are  presented 
before  the  presence  of  His  glory ;  but  we  may  be 
blameless  up  to  our  acquaintance  wnth  the  Divine 
will. 

The  work  is  from  within  outward. — Notice 
the  order — spirit,  soul,  body.  The  Shechinah  of 
His  presence  shines  in  the  holy  of  holies,  and 
thence  pours  over  into  the  holy  place,  and  so 
into  the  outer  court,  until  the  very  curtains  of 
the  body  are  irradiated  with  its  light.  He  will 
do  it. 

187 


That  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  may  be  glorified 
in  you.  2  Thess.  i.  i2  (r.  v.). 

WILL  you,  dear  Christian  soul,  enter  into  a 
solemn  compact  with  the  Holy  Spirit  that  you 
will  live  for  this  as  your  supreme  purpose,  namely, 
to  glorify  the  name  (/.  e.,  the  character)  of  the 
Lord  Jesus?  This  is  his  supreme  purpose  and 
aim  throughout  the  present  age.  He  seeks  the 
glory  of  Jesus  with  the  same  persistent  patience 
as  Jesus  sought  the  glory  of  His  Father,  and  longs 
for  our  fellowship  and  cooperation.  Nothing 
gratifies  the  Holy  Spirit  more  than  to  welcome 
into  partnership  those  who  love  the  Lord  Jesus 
with  a  consuming  passion,  and  are  prepared  to 
glorify  Him,  at  whatever  cost  to  themselves. 

It  has  made  a  great  difference  to  my  life  since  I 
responded  to  the  call  of  the  Spirit,  as  though  He 
said  directly,  as  once  through  His  servant,  *'0 
magnify  the  Lord  with  me,  and  let  us  exalt  His 
Name  together."  One  has  now  a  worthy  object 
always  in  view,  whether  in  speaking  or  keeping 
silence ;  in  acting  or  suffering ;  in  life  or  death — 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  may  be  magnified. 

Does  this  seem  too  high  an  aim  ?  Then  ponder 
the  gracious  assurance  that  the  Lord  will  fulfill 
every  desire  of  goodness  (ver.  ii).  He  first  in- 
stills the  desire,  and  then  realizes  it ;  first  sug- 
gests the  outline  plan,  and  then  fills  in  the  colors. 
Take  your  desires  for  goodness  to  Him,  and  trust 
Him,  in  all  faithfulness,  to  realize  and  fulfill 
them.  They  are  like  the  chalice  which  the  child 
brings  to  the  lake-side;  impure,  indeed,  but 
capable  of  being  rinsed ;  and  the  father,  taking 
it  from  its  hand,  plunges  it  into  the  pellucid 
waters,  that  cleanse  and  fill  to  the  brim.  Thank 
God  for  every  desire  of  goodness  !  But  be  not 
content  till  that  which  you  desire  is  in  actual 
possession  ;  for  He  who  prompts  the  desire  is  well 
able  to  fulfill  it. 

188 


God  hath  from  the  beginning  chosen  you  to  salva- 
tion. 2  Thess.  a.  ij. 

FROM  the  beginning  !  Who  shall  compute 
the  contents  of  the  vast  unknown  abyss,  which  is 
comprehended  in  that  phrase  ?  The  beginning  of 
creation  was  preceded  by  the  anticipation  of  Re- 
demption, and  the  love  of  God  to  all  who  were 
one  with  Christ. 

God's  aim  and  purpose.  Salvation. — Not 
simply  our  deliverance  from  the  penalty,  but  from 
the  power  of  all  besetting  sin ;  so  that  we  may  be 
delivered  from  the  fear  of  our  enemies,  and  serve 
Him  in  holiness  and  righteousness  all  our  days. 
This  He  is  prepared  to  give  to  us ;  but  we  must 
claim  it  by  faith. 

God^s  choice. — Whom  He  did  foreknow  He 
also  did  predestinate.  From  all  eternity  He  saw 
those  who  would  be  attracted  to  Jesus  by  a  Divine 
affinity,  and  these  were  included  in  His  gift  to  the 
Son.  *'  Thine  they  were,  and  Thou  gavest  them 
Me,  and  they  have  kept  Thy  word."  We  must 
not  presume  on  the  eternal  choice ;  but  we  may 
be  very  grateful  that  the  tendencies  emanating 
from  the  fall  are  met,  in  mid-flow,  by  the  grace 
and  choice  of  the  Almighty. 

God's  method.  Through  sanctification  of  the 
Spirit. — The  Holy  Ghost  sets  us  apart  from  sin, 
and  consecrates  us  to  God.  "  Know  ye  not  that 
your  body  is  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
is  in  you,  which  ye  have  of  God,  and  ye  are  not 
your  own?  For  ye  are  bought  with  a  price." 
Our  sanctification  is  not  the  property  of  our  soul, 
but  its  possession  of  the  Holy  One;  not  an  at- 
tribute, but  a  Person.  And  belief  of  the  truth. 
Let  the  Word  of  God  dwell  in  you  richly.  Hide 
it  in  your  heart,  that  you  may  be  kept  from  sin. 
We  are  sanctified  by  the  truth  in  so  far  as  we  ex- 
pose our  hearts  to  its  entrance  and  rule.  We  are 
cleansed  by  the  washing  of  water  through  the 
Word. 

189 


The  Lord  direct  your  hearts  into  the  love  of  Gody 
and  into  the  patient  waiting  for  Christ. 

2  Thess.  Hi.  J. 

*' DIRECT"  might  be  rendered  ''make 
straight."  It  is  used  of  the  apostle's  own  coming 
to  these  beloved  converts  in  i  Thess.  iii.  1 1 .  It 
is  as  though  he  asked  that  their  hearts  might  travel 
easily  and  swiftly  along  the  road  which  leads  into 
the  love  of  God,  and  the  patience  which,  untiring, 
waits  for  Christ. 

The  love  of  God. — We  urgently  need,  for  many 
reasons,  to  be  brought  into  the  love  of  God.  Only 
so  can  our  selfishness  be  conquered  and  expelled  ; 
only  so  can  we  become  like  God  in  our  daily  life 
and  conversation ;  only  this  is  the  complete  evi- 
dence to  the  world  that  our  holy  religion  is  true ; 
only  thus  shall  we  have  power  to  influence  the  lost 
and  fallen;  only  so  can  we  know  God,  ''for  he 
that  loveth  not,  knoweth  not  God."  But  how  can 
we  learn  to  love  ?  God  alone  can  teach  us  and 
guide  our  way  into  this  sacred  art.  His  Holy 
Spirit  must  fill  our  hearts  with  His  love ;  we  must 
ever  claim  and  receive  it  as  our  power  for  daily 
self-sacrifice,  and  we  must  be  prepared  to  take 
every  opportunity  of  sharing  the  love  of  God  in 
unselfishness  and  thoughtfulness  for  those  with 
whom  we  come  in  contact. 

The  Patience  of  Christ. — Thus  the  original 
might  be  rendered ;  and  the  beloved  disciple  con- 
fesses himself  a  brother  and  companion  in  the  pa- 
tience of  Jesus  Christ  (Rev.  i.  9).  We  all  know 
something  of  this.  Longing  for  answers  to  pray- 
ers that  are  still  delayed  ;  yearning  for  the  reali- 
zation of  hopes  and  ideals  of  which  God's  Spirit 
has  spoken  to  us ;  waiting  for  the  manifestation 
of  the  sons  of  God.  May  we  be  led  into  some- 
thing of  that  sublime  faith  and  patience  with 
which  Jesus  sits,  until  all  things  are  put  under 
Him,  and  He  is  satisfied. 
190 


Sinners i  of  whom  I  am  chief. 

I  Tim.  i.  75. 

IF  the  elephant  can  go  safely  over  the  sway- 
ing bridge,  the  horse  and  mule  can;  and  the 
apostle  seems  to  glory  that  in  the  very  begin- 
ning of  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  through  the 
world  it  had  laid  hold  of  and  converted  himself, 
because  if  he  had  been  saved,  any  one  might  be. 
As  men  have  been  brought  under  conviction,  in 
successive  ages,  it  has  been  a  profound  conso- 
lation to  learn  that  the  chief  of  sinners  has 
been  in  heaven  for  eighteen  hundred  years.  In 
him  first  Jesus  Christ  showed  forth  *'  all  long-suf- 
fering, for  a  pattern  to  them  which  should  here- 
after believe." 

Without  doubt  Paul  never  forgot  the  excess  of 
his  hatred  and  persecutions  toward  the  infant 
Church.  But  probably  he  alludes  here  also  to 
the  deepening  consciousness  of  unworthiness  and 
sinfulness  which  accompanies  all  progress  toward 
the  knowledge  and  love  of  God.  This  phase  of 
experience  may  be  accounted  for  thus.  The  true 
saint  of  God,  though  certain  of  forgiveness,  re- 
views his  past  sins  in  the  light  of  that  purity  of 
which  he  is  ever  obtaining  truer  perceptions,  and 
thus  recognizes  shades  of  evil  in  them  which  a 
slighter  knowledge  of  God  had  failed  to  reveal. 
He  also  feels  himself  a  greater  sinner  than  others, 
because  he  supposes  that  God  cannot  have  treated 
another  with  the  same  forbearance  and  mercy  as 
have  been  extended  to  himself;  and  the  greater 
the  love  the  more  heinous  the  transgression.  And 
in  addition,  as  subtler  forms  of  temptation  are 
suggested  to  him,  and  to  every  one,  he  knows  that 
there  are  kindred  susceptibilities  within  him,  even 
though  they  are  abhorred  and  resisted.  It  is  be- 
neath the  pressure  of  such  thoughts  that  he  recog- 
nizes his  uttermost  indebtedness  to  the  grace  of 
God. 

191 


That  supplications,  prayers,    intercessions,  and 
giving  of  thanks  be  made  for  all  men.  i  Tim.  U.  i. 

A  LIFE  is  revealed  here  of  which  many  of  us 
know  practically  nothing.  We  do  not  feel  the 
absolute  necessity  of  being  much  alone  in  the 
presence  of  God,  not  so  much  for  ourselves,  as 
for  others;  and  this  sad  neglect  of  intercessory 
prayer,  which  we  all  deplore,  really  points  to  a 
lack  of  the  divine  life,  since  if  that  were  mightily 
within  us  we  should  inevitably  feel  its  throb  and 
pulse  in  this  direction.  This  comes  out  clearly  in 
the  words  that  follow. 

Intercession  is  necessary  that  we  may  know 
the  secrets  of  a  quiet,  peaceable,  and  godly  life 
(ver.  2). 

Such  intercession  for  others  is  good  and  accepta- 
ble in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour  (ver.  3).  And 
the  word  translated  good  might  be  rendered  beau- 
tiful. 

It  is  consonant  with  the  Divine  purpose,  for 
God  wishes  to  have  all  men  saved  (ver.  4).  If, 
then,  His  Spirit  is  within  us,  we,  too,  shall  long 
that  men  should  be  saved  and  come  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth.  Our  hearts  will  be  filled  with 
a  Divine  tenderness  of  yearning  which  will  find 
vent  in  strong  cryings  and  tears.  It  is  only  thus 
we  can  live  in  harmony  within  the  Divine  purpose. 
One  writes  :  ''  When  I  think  of  this,  I  feel  I  must 
pray.  Oh,  how  near  it  brings  to  God  to  pray  in 
the  Spirit,  and  leads  me  to  see  that  no  pressure  of 
duty  among  men  can  free  us  from  the  absolute 
need  of  much  prayer." 

Such  intercession  is  in  profound  union  with  the 
mediation  of  our  Lord  (vers.  5,  6). — As  the  great 
High  Priest  He  ever  liveth  to  intercede ;  and  in 
our  little  measure  we,  too,  as  members  of  a  holy 
priesthood,  must  blend  our  supplications,  prayers, 
intercessions,  and  giving  of  thanks  with  His  (i 
Peter  ii.  5). 

192 


Without  cojitroversy  great  is  the  mystery  of  god- 
liness. I  Tim.  Hi.  lb. 

IT  is  more  than  likely  that  this  is  a  fragment 
of  one  of  the  earliest  hymns  of  the  Church.  In 
her  hymns,  and  maintenance  of  the  ordinances, 
she  thus  becomes  the  pillar  and  ground  of  the 
truth.  The  words  ''mystery  of  godliness "  are 
probably  a  general  heading  which  is  further  un- 
folded and  expanded  in  the  six  following  sen- 
tences, which'may  have  been  sung  antiphonally : — 

"  God  was  manifest  in  the  flesh, 
yustified  in  the  Spirit. 
Seen  of  angels, 
Preached  unto  the  Gentiles. 
Believed  on  in  the  world, 
Received  up  into  glory. ^^ 

The  Extremes  of  Manifestation. — The  Eternal 
Word  was  manifested  in  the  flesh.  But  it  was 
not  simply  a  physical  manifestation;  we  cannot 
forget  the  descent  of  the  Holy  Spirit  at  His  bap- 
tism, or  the  authentication  of  His  words  which 
the  Spirit  gave  in  signs  and  wonders,  and  con- 
vinced hearts,  and  converted  lives. 

The  Extremes  of  Created  Intelligence. — An- 
gels worship  Him ;  and  Gentiles,  sunk  in  heathen 
darkness,  hear  the  story  of  His  wondrous  love. 
Jesus  is  the  centre  of  all  worlds :  from  heaven's 
bright  spaces  they  come  to  Him  on  the  one  hand  ; 
from  earth's  dark  sins  they  come  on  the  other. 
In  Him  meet  angels  and  men. 

The  Extremes  of  Space. — Glory  is  above: 
**  He  was  received  up  into  glory."  The  world  is 
but  a  speck,  a  mote  in  the  beam  of  eternity. 
How  great  the  space  between  the  two  !  But  the 
feet  of  our  Emmanuel  have  trodden  its  low  pave- 
ment, and  He  has  now  taken  to  Himself  His 
former  glory.  Like  Jacob's  ladder.  He  links 
earth  with  the  throne  of  God. 
193 


Every  creature  of  God  is  good  .   .   .  if  it  be  re- 
ceived with  tha7iks giving.  i  Tim.  iv.  4. 

WE  must  be  very  careful  in  applying  these 
words.  Intoxicating  liquor,  for  instance,  is  some- 
times described  as  "  a  good  creature  of  God." 
But  surely  that  term  is  not  legitimate.  Whatever 
grounds  there  may  be  for  defending  its  use,  can 
this  text  be  alleged  as  one  ?  For  there  is  a  great 
deal  of  human  manipulation  in  its  preparation. 
Before  it  reaches  our  lips,  it  is  greatly  altered  by 
the  process  of  fermentation.  It  can  hardly  be 
called  God's  good  creature. 

When  we  are  quite  sure  that  we  are  dealing 
with  one  of  God's  pure  and  unadulterated  gifts, 
such  as  human  love,  friendship,  the  beauties  of 
nature,  wholesome  food,  fresh  young  spirits,  the 
innocent  mirth  of  the  Christmas  home-gathering ; 
we  must  distinguish  between  God's  gifts  and  our 
abuse  of  them;  between  His  creation  and  our 
distortion  of  it.  There  are  things  in  our  lives 
which  are  not  His  creation  or  gift,  and  which  we 
must  resolutely  refuse  and  put  away.  There  are 
others  which  come  to  us  clearly  and  absolutely 
from  His  hand. 

Rejoice  in  every  good  thing  which  the  Lord 
gives. — Rejoice  !  Do  not  enjoy  things  as  though 
under  the  sword  of  Damocles,  suspended  by  a 
thread. 

Be  careful  to  7nai?itain  the  spirit  of  thanksgiv- 
ing and  prayer. — What  you  can  thank  God  for 
or  use  in  His  name  and  for  His  glory ;  what  lifts 
you  from  the  gift  to  the  Giver,  or  is  capable  of 
being  prayed  over,  with  no  shadow  of  misgiving, 
is  innocent  and  healthy. 

Watch  o?ily  against  the  intrusion  of  self. — 
Whatever  you  place  between  yourself  and  God,  or 
rest  on  apart  from  God,  or  make  the  aim  and  cen- 
tre of  your  life,  is  hurtful  and  must  pass  through 
the  fire.  The  way  to  rid  yourself  of  its  poison  is 
to  insist  on  making  it  a  subject  of  thanksgiving. 
194 


She  that  is  a  widow  indeed^  and  desolate,  trusteth 
in  God.  I  Tim.  V.  s- 

ART  thou  desolate  indeed,  because  the  light 
of  thine  eyes  has  passed  from  view,  leaving  thee 
immeasurably  lonely?  Dear  soul,  do  not  look 
down  into  the  grave  which  has  received  the 
precious  mortal  frame,  but  up  into  the  face  of 
God. 

He  lent  thee  thy  beloved.  From  the  time  of 
the  first  knitting  of  soul  with  soul  he  was  but  a 
loan  for  a  specified  time ;  and  wouldst  thou  not 
rather  have  had  him  for  so  short  a  time  than  not 
at  all?  Wouldst  thou  not  have  said,  had  God 
asked  thee,  "  I  would  rather  have  a  year  or  month 
of  such  love  as  his  than  none"?  Do  not  be 
angry,  because  God  has  done  as  He  always  in- 
tended. 

Besides,  that  beloved  one  is  still  thine.  Thy 
love  so  entered  into  his  heart  that  it  could  not  be 
eradicated,  though  ages  should  pass.  Do  not 
suppose  that  death  is  so  mighty  a  magician  as  to 
alter  the  very  nature  of  those  who  pass  for  a  mo- 
ment beneath  His  wand. 

And  God  will  care  for  thee.  Trust  Him  for 
society,  that  thou  be  not  lonely;  for  the  provi- 
sion of  what  is  necessary  to  thy  support ;  and  for 
the  protecting  love  which  thy  shrinking  nature 
calls  for.     Thy  Maker  will  be  thy  husband. 

Wouldst  thou  be  comforted,  continue  in  prayers 
and  supplications  for  others  night  and  day.  Cease 
to  shut  thyself  up  with  thy  sorrow,  and  go  out  to 
minister  comfort  to  those  who  sorrow  as  without 
hope.  A  Hindoo  story  tells  of  a  bereaved  mother, 
who  was  advised  to  obtain  a  handful  of  corn  from 
a  house  where  there  was  no  trouble,  and  was  so 
occupied  in  seeking  it,  and  in  comforting  the  in- 
mates of  the  various  homes  she  visited,  that  her 
own  grief  was  assuaged. 

195 


Nor  trust  in  uncertain  riches^  but  in  the  living 
God.  I  Tim,  vi.  I  J. 

THE  contrast  here  is  very  beautiful.  Men,  for 
the  most  part,  look  to  riches  to  supply  them  with 
all  they  need  richly  to  enjoy ;  but  the  apostle  says 
that  it  is  beyond  all  comparison  better  to  look 
away  from  dead  coin  to  a  living  Person,  who 
takes  pleasure  in  giving  liberally  without  upbraid- 
ing. 

Here  is  a  rebuke. — Supposing  you  had  your 
cellars  filled  with  gold  coin,  would  you  not  think 
yourself  secure  against  all  possible  need  and  care  ? 
Almost  certainly  you  would.  But  you  ought  to 
be  even  more  at  rest,  since  you  have  neither  silver 
nor  gold,  and  only  your  Heavenly  Father's  hand. 

Here  is  a  contrast. — Riches  are  uncertain  at 
the  best.  A  man  in  these  difficult  days  finds  it 
easier  to  gain  money  than  to  hold  it.  He  who  is 
rich  to-day  may  awake  to-morrow  to  find  that 
some  sudden  turn  of  the  market  has  made  him 
poor.  But  God  is  not  uncertain.  He  is  the 
same  yesterday,  to-day,  and  forever.  His  cove- 
nants are  certainties. 

Here  is  an  appeal. — Trust  in  the  living  God 
with  as  much  restfulness  as  others  in  their  lands 
and  revenues,  and  be  almost  glad  if  God  takes 
away  from  you  what  you  have  clung  to  so  tena- 
ciously, that  you  may  drop  securely  into  His 
everlasting  arms.  You  smile  at  the  story  of  the 
lady  who  was  told  by  the  captain  that  he  had 
done  all  he  could  for  the  vessel,  and  they  must 
now  look  to  the  Almighty;  and  who  replied,  <'  O 
captain,  has  it  come  to  that?"  But  you  may  be 
nearer  akin  to  her  spirit  than  you  suppose ! 

Here  is  an  assured  destiny. — Those  who  trust 
in  riches  are  pierced  through  with  many  sorrows, 
and  are  caught  in  the  maelstrom,  which  drowns 
souls  in  perdition ;  they  who  trust  in  the  Lord  are 
as  Mount  Zion,  which  cannot  be  removed. 
196 


He  is  able  to  keep  7ny  deposit.   .   .   .    The  good  de- 
posit, keep.  2  TifH.  i.  12^  14  (R.  v.,  marg.). 

THERE  is  a  double  deposit  here,  and  the 
comparison  comes  out  clear  and  marked  in  the 
Greek.  When  we  give  our  most  precious  treas- 
ure into  the  custodianship  of  Jesus,  He  turns  to 
honor  us  by  entrusting  His  own  treasure  to  our 
care.  Oh  that  we  might  be  as  eager  to  keep 
that  which  He  entrusts  to  us,  as  He  is  that  which 
we  entrust  to  Him ;  so  that  He  might  be  able  to 
say  of  us,  "I  know  them  in  whom  I  have  trusted, 
and  am  persuaded  that  they  will  never  fail  to 
do  whatever  needs  to  be  done  for  My  honor  and 
glory." 

Our  deposit  with  Christ. — What  is  the  true 
policy  of  life  ?  How  can  I  best  spend  these  few 
years  to  the  best  advantage  ?  What  is  there  be- 
yond, and  beyond  ?  Such  questions  come  to  all 
earnest  souls,  and  greatly  trouble  them,  till  they 
entrust  the  keeping  of  their  souls  and  the  direction 
of  their  lives  into  the  hands  of  the  faithful  Saviour. 
We  feel  sure  that  He  has  the  words  of  eternal  life, 
and  that  all  power  is  given  to  Him  in  heaven  and 
on  earth.  At  first  there  is  something  of  a  venture 
— we  trust  Him ;  next,  there  is  the  knowledge 
which  comes  from  experience — we  know  Him ; 
lastly,  there  is  strong  confidence — we  are  per- 
suaded that  He  is  able. 

Christ's  deposit  with  us. — And  what  is  this? 
I  Tim.  vi.  20,  14,  iv.  16,  suggests  the  answer.  To 
every  believer  Jesus  hands  the  custody  of  His 
honor.  His  Gospel,  His  Father's  glory,  His  holy 
day,  the  ordinances  which  He  bequeathed  to  the 
Church.  As  Ezra  charged  the  priests  to  bear 
safely  through  the  desert  march  the  sacred  vessels, 
so  our  Captain  charges  us,  and  throughout  the 
whole  Bible  rings  the  injunction  :  '*  Be  ye  clean, 
ye  that  bear  the  vessels  of  the  Lord." 
197 


Meet  for  the  Master'' s  use. 

2  Tim.  it.  21. 

THIS  I  would  be,  O  Lord,  clay  though  I  am. 
Be  Thou  my  potter.  Make  of  me  what  Thou 
canst  and  by  what  process  Thou  wilt,  only  let  me 
be  what  Thou  canst  use. 

Art  thou  able  to  drink  the  cup  that  I  drink  of, 
and  be  baptized  with  the  baptism  that  I  am 
baptized  with  ? 

By  Thy  grace  I  am  able.  Let  me  die  with 
Thee ;  lie  in  the  grave  of  obscurity  and  neglect ; 
be  counted  as  the  off-scouring  of  all  things ;  be 
broken  on  the  edge  of  Thy  wheel ;  pass  through 
the  fire  of  Thy  hottest  kiln — only  let  me  be  one 
whom  Thou  choosest  and  usest,  constantly  in  Thy 
hand;  dipped  down  often  into  the  brimming 
well,  and  back  to  Thy  dear  lips,  or  to  the  lips  of 
whom  Thou  lovest. 

The  spirit  is  willing ^  My  child,  but  the  flesh  is 
weak. 

I  know  it,  I  know  it.  Lord.  But  I  desire  to 
die  to  the  weakness  of  the  flesh,  its  ache,  its 
tears,  its  faintness,  that  I  may  live  in  the  Spirit. 
Is  not  Thy  grace  sufficient?  It  not  Thy  strength 
perfected  in  weakness  ?  Is  not  the  residue  of 
the  Spirit  with  Thee,  to  give  without  measure? 
Heed  not  my  weak  cryings,  but  perfect  that 
which  concerneth  me.  Only  make  me  a  vessel 
that  Thou  canst  use. 

He  that  would  be  great,  let  him  be  as  he  that 
doth  serve. 

I  understand  Thee,  Master.  Thou  wouldst  win- 
now my  heart,  and  rid  me  of  all  that  is  proud 
and  selfish.  It  is  true  that  in  the  time  past  I  have 
sought  great  things  for  myself :  but  that  is  gone 
now  :  I  am  but  a  weaned  babe :  my  only  desire  is 
for  Thee,  for  Thy  glory,  for  the  magnifying  of 
Thy  name  :  my  one  cry  to  be  often,  always,  in  Thy 
hand. 

198 


All  Scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  of  God, 

2  Tim.  Hi.  1 6. 

LITERALLY  the  words  stand,  All  Scripture, 
God-breathed  and  profitable.  It  is  a  remarkable 
expression,  reminding  of  the  early  record,  '*God 
breathed  into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life,  and 
he  became  a  living  soul."  The  breath  of  God 
has  entered  these  holy  words ^  and  they  live. 

This  makes  Scripture  fragrant. — I  write  these 
words  beneath  the  leafy  shadow  of  an  oak-tree, 
on  a  ridge  of  hill  commanding  the  Weald  of 
Kent.  The  summer  breeze  is  hurrying  past. 
Since  it  left  the  southern  sea  it  has  passed  over 
miles  of  fragrant  country,  imbibing  the  sweet 
scents  of  flower  gardens,  orchards,  and  hop- 
gardens ;  lading  it  with  perfume,  which  makes  it 
an  ecstasy  to  inhale.  Ah,  fragrant  breeze,  how 
thou  remindest  me  of  those  holy  thoughts  which 
are  wafted  to  me  from  the  orchards  of  Paradise, 
whensoever  I  open  the  sacred  Word  ! 

This  makes  it  refreshing. — On  this  hot  summer 
day  the  heat  would  be  overpowering  but  for  this 
delightful  breeze,  which  fans  the  cheek  and  cools 
the  atmosphere.  The  current  is  always  changing, 
hence  the  refreshment.  And  the  Word  of  God 
is  always  fresh  and  interesting,  because  the  Spirit 
of  God  is  perpetually  passing  into  and  through  it, 
bringing  His  own  life  to  us,  and  through  us  to  the 
world. 

This  makes  it  beautiful. — The  effect  of  the 
wind,  in  the  music  of  the  leaves  above,  the 
swaying  of  the  grasses  at  my  feet,  the  rustling  of 
yonder  golden  corn  across  the  beaten  foot-path, 
adds  an  element  of  incomparable  delight.  There 
is  new  meaning,  movement,  music,  in  it  all.  And 
it  is  only  as  the  Divine  breath  breathes  through 
apostles  and  prophets,  that,  like  great  organ-pipes, 
they  become  resonant  with  heavenly  music. 
199 


The   Lord  Jesus    Christ,    who   shall  Judge   the 
quick  and  the  dead  at  His  appearing. 

2  Tim,  iv.  I. 

PROFESSOR  RENDEL  HARRIS  reminds  us 
that  an  early  piece  of  Christian  Uterature,  called 
the  Second  Epistle  of  Clement,  opens  with  these 
words:  "Brethren,  we  ought  to  think  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  God,  as  the  Judge  of  quick  and  dead. 
And  we  ought  not  to  think  meanly  of  our  salva- 
tion ;  for  when  we  think  meanly  of  Him,  meanly 
also  do  we  expect  to  receive."  In  the  view  of 
this  holy  soul  there  was  a  very  deep  and  neces- 
sary connection  between  creed  and  character. 
Those  who  esteem  Him  most  worthily  will  derive 
most  from  Him. 

Large  thoughts  of  Christ  are  necessary  to  holi- 
ness.— Unless  we  think  of  Christ  as  the  Ideal 
Man,  in  whom  there  was  no  flaw  or  stain,  how 
can  we  make  Him  the  model  of  our  daily  life  ? 
Unless  we  think  of  Him  as  the  Son  of  God,  able 
to  subdue  all  things  to  Himself,  how  can  we  dare 
to  hope  to  become  like  Him  ?  * '  I  should  die,  O 
my  Lord,"  cried  a  saint  in  a  moment  of  religious 
ecstasy,  ''if  I  thought  that  I  should  fail  of  loving 
Thee  with  all  my  heart." 

Large  thoughts  of  Christ  are  necessary  to 
prayer. — He  that  cometh  to  God  must  believe 
that  He  is,  and  that  He  is  the  Rewarder.  Be- 
think thee  well  before  thou  openest  thy  lips  in  the 
first  entreaty,  who  He  is  whom  thou  addressest, 
and  forthwith  great  and  far-reaching  petitions  will 
naturally  form  themselves  within  thine  heart. 

Large  thoughts  of  Christ  are  necessary  for 
Christian  work. — The  solid  belief  that  Christ  has 
redeemed  our  race,  and  that  the  Father  has  given 
Him  the  kingdom  over  all  the  world,  is  absolutely 
necessary  before  there  can  be  any  enthusiastic 
effort  on  our  part  to  make  Him  King  and  secure 
for  Him  actually  the  kingdom,  the  power,  and  the 
glory. 

2U0 


According  to  the  faith  of  God^s  electa  and  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  Titus  i.  i  (k.v.). 

THESE  seem  to  have  been  the  two  guiding 
stars  of  the  apostle's  life — faith  and  knowledge. 
Some  are  afraid  of  the  conjunction.  The  men 
of  faith  are  afraid  of  science,  and  the  men  of 
science  often  despise  faith.  But  they  are  not  an- 
tagonistic. 

Faith. — The  faith  that  inspires  all  elect  souls  is 
one  and  the  same.  In  some  there  may  be  more, 
in  others  less ;  but  its  attitude  toward  God  and 
its  phases  of  experience,  trial,  and  triumph,  are 
the  same  in  all  who  believe.  In  addition  to  this, 
the  general  facts  and  truths  on  which  our  faith 
lays  hold,  and  from  which  it  extracts  its  nourish- 
ment, are  the  same  :  and  it  is  a  comfort  to  know 
that  these  have  been  passed  on  from  age  to  age 
from  the  earliest  days,  and  that  we  are  called  to 
believe  in  them,  and  hold  them  fast. 

Knowledge  of  the  Truth. — We  need  not  fear 
or  shun  knowledge,  which  is  simply  the  explor- 
ing and  discovery  of  the  ways  and  thoughts  of 
God.  ''Let  knowledge  grow  from  more  to 
more."  Only  let  her  always  concern  herself 
with  the  great  facts  and  methods  of  God's  uni- 
verse, rather  than  with  human  speculation  and 
fancy.  There  is  a  distinction  between  knowl- 
edge and  wisdom.  The  one  may  be  only  intel- 
lectual ;  the  other  is  always  moral.  Those  who 
pretend  to  know  are  not  always  wise;  but  the 
wise  always  know. 

Godliness. — True  knowledge  will  make  you 
godly,  reverent,  devout;  filling  you  with  the 
Spirit  of  God  within,  and  with  likeness  to  God 
without.  It  is  only  as  you  are  godly,  that  you 
will  really  be  wise  and  know  things  that  are 
hidden  from  the  wise  and  prudent.  True  knowl- 
edge leads  to  godliness,  and  godliness  back  to 
knowledge. 

201 


Who  gave  Himself  for  us,  that  He  might  redeem 
us  from  all  iniquity,  Titus  ii.  14. 

AFTER  all  that  we  have  professed  and  learned, 
how  hard  it  is  to  believe  that  God  intends  just 
what  He  says  !  When  the  Holy  Spirit  says  all, 
He  clearly  means  all.  And  we  are,  therefore, 
taught  that  the  death  of  Jesus  was  intended,  not 
for  our  forgiveness  and  justification  merely,  but 
for  our  sanctification,  and  our  deliverance  from 
the  power  of  all  our  besetting  sins.  The  text 
does  not  promise  freedom  from  temptation ;  but 
from  all  yielding  to  habits,  dispositions,  and 
tempers  of  soul  which  have  ruthlessly  tyrannized 
over  us  as  Egypt  over  Israel. 

Jesus  died  for  thee,  O  child  of  God,  that  hav- 
ing been  set  free  from  the  bondage  of  all  iniquity 
thou  mightest  live  soberly  as  regards  the  use  of 
the  world,  righteously  toward  thy  fellows,  and 
godly  toward  the  Almighty,  and  *' looking  for 
that  blessed  hope."  The  grace  of  God  has  ap- 
peared ;  His  glory  will  appear.  There  has  been 
an  Epiphany  of  the  one ;  there  shall  be  as  cer- 
tainly an  Epiphany  of  the  other.  Many  awaited 
the  first ;  more  shall  await  the  second.  The  one 
was  in  humiliation  ;  the  other  shall  be  in  glory : 
the  one  was  as  a  Babe ;  the  other  shall  be  in  the 
glory  of  the  Divine  Man.  But  till  then  we  are 
called  to  wait  with  garments  unspotted  from  the 
world,  and  hearts  delivered  from  the  love  and 
power  of  human  sin. 

Let  us  teach  the  world  that  God  has  something 
tangible  and  practicable  to  give — not  for  the  next 
life  only,  but  for  this.  We  are  taught  by  that 
gentle  school-mistress,  the  Grace  of  God,  to  live — 
soberly,  as  regards  our  personal  life ;  righteously, 
in  relation  to  others;  godly,  in  our  attitude  to- 
ward God.  Wesley  says,  ''  Until  you  press  be- 
lievers to  accept  full  salvation  now,  you  must  not 
look  for  any  revival." 

803 


The  kindness   and  love  of  God  our  Saviour  to- 
ward man  appeared.  Titus  Hi.  4. 

THE  emphasis  must  surely  rest  on  appeared. 
Kindness  and  love  toward  man  were  always  in 
the  heart  of  God,  but  they  were  not  clearly  re- 
vealed. They  might  have  been  perceived  in  the 
order  of  nature  and  human  life ;  but  there  are 
stormy  winds  as  well  as  zephyrs  in  the  one — and 
in  the  other  deaths  as  well  as  births ;  knells  of 
hope  as  well  as  marriage  peals.  But  in  Jesus  the 
true  heart  of  God  toward  man  was  manifested. 
It  is  thus  in  human  life. 

At  first  God  blessed  tis  anonymously. — In 
Cowper's  memoirs  we  read  how  Theodora,  his 
cousin,  pursued  him  throughout  his  sad  life  with 
her  gifts ;  but  they  always  came  without  indica- 
tion of  their  source.  As  the  poet  unwrapped  his 
new-come  treasure,  he  would  say,  ''  Dear  Anony- 
mous has  come  again;  God  bless  him."  So, 
through  years  of  thoughtless  childhood,  and 
afterward  in  opening  youth,  we  were  the  re- 
cipients of  myriads  of  gifts  contrived  with  the 
most  exquisite  skill  to  give  us  pleasure ;  but  we 
did  not  trace  them  to  their  source.  They  were 
from  God. 

Since  then  His  grace  and  loving  kindness  have 
appeared. — We  have  had  eyes  to  see,  and  hearts 
to  understand.  The  Anonymous  Benefactor  is 
now  recognized  as  our  Father  and  Friend.  We 
no  longer  praise  our  earthly  loves  for  our  cornfields 
and  vineyards,  but  our  Heavenly  Spouse  (Hosea 
ii.).  In  the  breaking  of  the  bread  we  have  recog- 
nized the  Son  of  God,  and  we  know  now  who  it 
was  that  walked  with  us  along  the  path  of  life, 
and  why  our  hearts  burned. 

"  Oh  to  grace  how  great  a  debtor 
Daily  I'm  constrained  to  be ; 
Let  that  gi-ace,  Lord,  like  a  fetter, 
Bind  my  wandering  heart  to  Thee." 

203 


My  very  heart. 

Philemon  12  (r.  v.). 

THIS  fragment  of  ancient  letter-writing  gives 
us  a  model  of  the  way  in  which  our  commonest 
or  most  prosaic  dealings,  and  our  letters,  even  on 
business  matters,  may  breathe  Christ's  spirit.  It 
also  illustrates  the  relation  in  which  we  stand  to 
Jesus  Christ.  What  Onesimus  was  to  Paul  and 
Philemon  combined,  that  we  are  to  our  Lord. 

What  was  Onesimus  to  Paul? — His  child, 
whom  he  had  begotten  in  his  bonds.  He  had 
probably  been  discovered  by  some  of  his  com- 
panions in  the  purlieus  of  Rome,  where  criminals 
concealed  themselves  from  justice,  and  abandoned 
characters  gave  vent  to  the  wildest  passions.  Or, 
having  heard  that  the  apostle,  whom  he  had  so 
often  met  in  his  master's  house,  was  residing  in  his 
own  hired  house  in  Rome,  the  runaway  slave  had 
found  him  out,  when  in  the  extremity  of  hunger. 
In  either  case  he  had  now  become  dear  as  the 
apostle's  heart;  had  learned  to  minister  to  him  in 
his  bonds ;  had  proved  more  than  a  servant — a 
brother  beloved.  O  Thou  who  hast  redeemed  us 
from  our  sins,  may  we  be  all  this  to  Thee  ! 

What  was  Onesimus  to  Philemon  ? — He  had 
been  unprofitable ;  and  we  have  been.  He  was 
sent  back ;  and  we  have  returned  to  the  Shepherd 
and  Bishop  of  our  souls.  He  had  been  a  servant, 
henceforth  he  should  be  a  beloved  brother ;  and 
we  are  no  longer  servants  but  friends.  He  had 
grievously  wronged  his  master ;  but  his  sin  had 
been  forgiven,  and  so  covered  by  over-abounding 
grace,  that  it  would  bring  him  into  a  position  of 
greater  privilege  and  blessing  than  ever  before. 
In  this  man's  sin  and  restoration  we  see  our- 
selves. Where  our  sin  abounded,  grace  has 
much  more  abounded,  through  the  tender  pity 
of  Him  who  had  put  our  defalcations  to  His  own 
account. 

204 


Thou  art  the  same. 

Heb.  i,  12. 

THOU  art  the  same,  when  contrasted  with 
nature. — The  solid  bases  of  the  hills  were  laid  in 
their  sockets  by  Thy  hands.  The  blue  tapestry 
of  the  sky  was  woven  by  Thy  fingers ;  and  it  is  as 
easy  for  Thee  to  lay  it  aside  and  substitute  new 
heavens  as  for  us  to  lay  aside  a  worn-out  dress 
and  take  another.  And  as  the  change  of  dress 
does  not  affect  the  nature  of  the  wearer,  neither 
will  all  the  changes  of  creation  or  nature  affect  the 
power  of  Thine  hand  or  the  tenderness  of  Thy 
heart.     Thou  art  the  same  ! 

Thou  art  the  same,  when  contrasted  withfjien. — 
They  come  and  go.  The  great  ones  of  the  past — 
Abraham,  Moses,  David,  Elijah — stood  with 
Thee  for  a  moment  on  the  earth,  and  then  passed 
into  the  great  silence.  Augustine,  Luther,  Cal- 
vin, Knox,  wrought  for  Thee  and  with  Thee, 
and  passed  away.  Our  own  teachers  and  friends 
have  not  been  suffered  to  continue  by  reason  of 
death.  One  by  one  they  have  passed  from  us ; 
but  Thou  art  the  same,  and  Thy  years  shall  not 
fail! 

Thou  art  the  same,  when  contrasted  with  07ir 
own  moods  and  impulses. — They  are  too  fitful ; 
like  the  morning  dew;  like  the  evening  wind. 
Sometimes  we  feel  we  could  die  for  Thee;  at 
other  times  we  sleep  amid  Thy  sorrows.  Emo- 
tions, resolutions,  methods  of  thought  and  action, 
are  permanent  only  in  their  changefulness.  But 
Thou  art  the  same — changeless  and  timeless,  our 
Rock  of  Ages,  our  impregnable  Fortress  and 
Home  ! 

This  was  the  import  of  the  Burning  Bush 
which  flamed  out  on  the  hillside  in  the  dark 
night,  but  did  not  burn  to  the  ground.  Steadily, 
constantly,  fiercely,  the  fire  shone,  but  needed  no 
fuel  from  the  tree — symbol  of  the  I  AM. 
205 


A  merciful  and  faithful  High  Priest. 

Heb.  ii.  ly. 

THE  priesthood  of  Jesus  stretches  like  the 
sky  from  the  horizon  of  the  past  to  that  of 
the  eternal  future.  It  covers  all  we  know  of 
Him. 

In  the^  days  that  preceded  His  incarnation. — 
We  are  told  that  the  priesthood  of  Melchizedek 
was  made  like  that  of  the  Son  of  God  (Heb.  vii. 
3),  from  which  it  is  clear  that  all  the  apparatus  of 
priesthood  within  and  without  the  Jewish  system 
was  some  faint  imagining  forth  of  the  priestly 
mediation  and  intercession  of  the  Saviour.  The 
eternal  temple  was  reared,  the  incense  of  inter- 
cession ascended,  the  sacrifice  of  the  Lamb  was 
slain,  before  the  first  thin  spiral  of  smoke  rose  from 
Moriah's  summit. 

/;/  the  days  of  His  earthly  ministry. — At  the 
Passover,  when  the  High  Priest  had  finished  the 
sacred  rites,  he  came  forth  to  the  people,  and 
said,  ''Now  ye  are  clean."  In  John  xv.  3  Jesus 
addressed  His  disciples  in  the  same  words.  His 
authority  to  forgive  sins ;  His  quick  sympathy, 
and  likeness  to  His  brethren ;  His  frequent 
prayers ;  His  intercessions  for  sinners,  as  when 
He  pleaded  for  His  crucifiers ;  His  intercessions 
for  the  tempted,  as  when  He  prayed  for  Peter ; 
His  intercessions  for  His  own,  as  in  the  matchless 
John  xvii.  ;  His  reference  to  the  shedding  of 
blood ;  the  whole  circumstances  of  His  death — 
show  His  priestly  attitude,  which  culminated  in 
His  passing  within  the  vail. 

In  the  days  of  the  present  dispensation. — The 
divine  apostle  tells  us  that  he  saw  Christ  clothed 
in  a  vesture  to  the  foot,  and  employs  this  specific 
word  for  high-priestly  dress.  He  saw  Him  en- 
gaged in  priestly  ministry ;  and  in  a  subsequent 
vision  tells  us  that  he  saw  Him  mingle  much  in- 
cense with  the  prayer  of  saints,  and  present  them 
before  God. 

206 


Co7isider  .   .   .  Jesus. 

Heb.  Hi.  /. 

WHO  are  to  consider  Him  ? — "  Holy  breth- 
ren." Because  we  are  the  brethren  of  Jesus,  we 
must  consider  our  Brother.  Because  we  are 
brethren  with  all,  whom  He  brothers,  we  should 
emulate  the  saints  of  all  ages  in  their  eager  gaze 
at  Christ.  We  must  possess  the  holiness  without 
which  none  c  an  see  the  Lord,  and  we  must  live 
in  holy  love  with  all  who  bear  the  name  of  Christ. 
Do  you  lack  either  of  these  ?  This  is  the  reason 
why  your  eyes  are  blinded.  Step  out  of  the  mist 
into  the  clear  prospect : — 

«'  A  step, 
A  single  step,  shall  free  you  from  the  skirts 
Of  the  blind  vapor,  and  open  to  your  view 
Glory  beyond  all  glory  ever  seen 
By  waking  sense  or  by  the  dreaming  soul." 

What  right  have  they  to  consider  Him  ? — Be- 
cause they  are  "  partakers  of  a  heavenly  calling." 
They  have  turned  from  the  world,  from  the 
fascinations  of  the  sin  and  the  flesh;  they  are 
seeking  the  heavenly  city,  the  New  Jerusalem. 
Surely  such  have  a  right,  given  them  of  grace,  to 
live  in  daily  personal  vision  of  their  King  ! 

In  what  aspects  should  they  consider  Him  ? — 
As  Apostle,  whom  God  has  sent  out  of  His  bosom 
to  man,  and  whom  man  sends  back  to  God.  As 
Priest,  who  was  in  all  points  tempted  like  as  we 
are,  yet  without  sin,  who  bears  our  needs  and  sins 
and  sorrows  on  His  heart.  As  the  Son,  com- 
pared with  whom  Moses  was  but  a  servant.  As 
Creator,  by  whom  all  things  were  made,  and 
without  whom  was  not  anything  made.  As  the 
Head  of  the  household  of  those  who  believe.  As 
the  All-faithful  One,  who  will  never  resign  His 
charge.  Consider  Jesus  in  each  of  these  aspects, 
and  rejoice  in  Him. 

207 


There  re?naineth,  therefore,  a  Sabbath  rest  for 
the  people  of  God.  Heb.  iv.  ig  (r.  v.). 

THERE  is  a  rest  for  weary  souls. — God 
speaks  of  it  as  His  Rest.  He  entered  it,  we  are 
told,  when  He  had  finished  His  work,  and  beheld 
it  to  be  very  good ;  and  ever  since  the  door  has 
been  standing  open  for  the  travel -stained,  weary- 
children  of  men  to  enter  it.  To  every  other 
creation-day  there  were  evening  and  morning,  but 
not  to  this ;  it  partakes  of  the  nature  of  eternity  in 
its  timeless  bliss. 

Let  us  rejoice  that  this  rest  remaineth. — Of 
course,  the  Sabbath,  which  was  and  is  a  type  of 
it,  could  not  exhaust  it.  And  Canaan,  with  its 
sweet  plains  and  cessation  of  the  wilderness 
wanderings,  could  not  completely  fulfill  it;  be- 
cause centuries  after  it  had  been  given  through 
Joshua,  in  the  Psalms  God  spoke  of  yet  another 
day,  as  though  His  rest  were  still  future. 

The  rest  may  be  a  present  experience. — The 
word  *' remaineth"  has  diverted  the  thoughts  of 
commentators  who  have  supposed  it  referred  to 
heaven.  There  is  rest,  sweet  rest,  there.  But 
''remaineth"  means  ''unexhausted,  unreahzed, 
by  aught  which  has  taken  place. ' '  The  rest  is  for 
us  here  and  now.  "We  which  have  believed  do 
enter  into  rest."  Where  is  it?  In  the  bosom  of 
Christ:  "Come  unto  Me,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest."  It  is  in  ploughing  the  furrow  of  daily 
duty — "  Take  My  yoke  ;  .  .  .     I  find  rest." 

This  rest  is  coinpatible  with  great  activity. — 
He  that  enters  into  the  Divine  rest  is  not  reduced 
to  quietism.  On  the  seventh  day  the  Creator 
rested  from  creation  ;  but  He  works  in  providence. 
Jesus,  on  the  seventh  day,  rested  from  Calvary; 
but  He  pleads  in  heaven.  Cease  from  your  own 
works,  after  a  similar  fashion ;  abandon  your  rest- 
less planning  and  striving ;  by  the  grace  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  better  service  will  be  produced. 
208 


Senses  exercised  to  discern  good  and  evil. 

lied.  V.  14. 

IT  is  difficult  to  exaggerate  the  value  of  the 
physical  senses.  Take,  for  instance,  that  of 
scent.  It  is  the  means  of  exquisite  enjoyment, 
conveying  to  us  the  perfume  of  garden  or  field ; 
and  it  secures  us  against  serious  perils  that  lie 
in  wait  for  our  unwary  footsteps.  By  the  order 
of  God's  providence,  hurtful  substances  exhale 
noxious  and  forbidding  odors,  by  reason  of  which 
we  are  warned  from  going  into  their  close  prox- 
imity. 

The  soul  also  is  endowed  with  senses.  How 
important  a  part  our  spiritual  senses  may  play  in 
the  regimen  of  the  inner  life  !  If  we  are  quick  to 
discern  good  and  evil,  we  may  welcome  the  one 
and  avoid  the  other  with  ever-increasing  readi- 
ness. We  may  receive  the  blessing  of  the  one 
when  still  afar  off,  and  avoid  the  curse  of  the 
other  when  only  threatening  us. 

The  army  which  is  ill  served  by  its  scouts 
stands  a  much  worse  chance  than  if  it  were  fore- 
warned when  an  attack  was  advancing.  The 
foremost  ranks  of  the  foe  may  be  over  the  ram- 
parts, and  engaged  in  the  heart  of  the  fortress, 
before  there  has  been  time  for  preparation.  Oh, 
to  detect  temptation,  when  still  it  is  only  a 
thought,  a  suggestion,  a  faint  shadow  on  the 
sky  ! 

We  may  sharpen  our  senses  by  use.  When  I 
was  in  the  tea-trade,  my  sense  of  touch  and  taste 
and  smell  became  acute  to  discern  quite  minute 
differences.  We  need  a  similar  acuteness  in  dis- 
cerning good  and  evil.  May  our  hearts  become 
most  sensitive  to  all  that  might  lead  to  tempta- 
tion, so  that  we  may  deal  with  the  tempter  in  the 
very  earliest  suggestions  of  evil.  Lord,  make  us 
quick  of  scent  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord  (Isa.  xi.  3 
R.  v.). 


//  is  impossible  to  renew  again  to  repentance,  the 
while.    .    .    .  Heb.  vi.  6  (R.  v.,  marg.). 

THE  writer  of  this  Epistle  is  eager  to  lead  his 
readers  from  first  principles  to  that  strong  meat 
which  was  befitting  for  those  of  mature  growth ; 
and,  as  he  proceeds  to  do  so,  it  was  as  though  he 
were  arrested  by  a  sudden  thought  of  some  who 
had  recently  fallen  away  from  the  faith. 

In  the  awful  stress  of  trial  which  accompanied 
the  fall  of  Jerusalem,  the  Hebrew  Christians,  who 
were  still  dwelling  in  Palestine,  were  strongly 
tempted  to  apostatize.  Some,  indeed,  had  done 
so.  But  can  we  really  consider  that  they  ever 
were  true  Christians?  They  went  out,  because 
they  had  never  been  truly  of.  They  had  been 
enlightened  as  to  the  doctrines  of  Christianity; 
but  the  enlightenment  had  been  of  their  head 
rather  than  of  their  heart.  They  had  tasted  of 
the  heavenly  hopes,  anticipations,  and  joys  of  the 
Gospel  message,  without  really  belonging  to  the 
Household  of  Faith.  But,  notwithstanding  all, 
they  had  gone  back. 

It  is  impossible  to  renew  such  to  repentance, 
whilst  they  go  on  living  as  they  do,  crucifying  the 
Son  of  God  by  their  vicious  and  cowardly  course 
of  action,  and  putting  Him  to  an  open  shame. 
Notice  that  whilst,  suggested  by  Bishop  Westcott, 
of  the  margin  of  the  r.  v.  It  is  the  solution  of 
the  great  difficulty  which  has  perplexed  many 
timid  souls.  The  impossibility  of  renewal  is  only 
for  those  who  persist  in  their  evil  ways.  Abandon 
your  sins,  and  God  will  restore  you  to  your  old 
place. 

It  cannot  be  too  clearly  emphasized  that  this 
text  does  not  say  that  backsliders  cannot  be  re- 
stored to  the  favor  and  forgiveness  of  God  ;  but 
that  they  cannot  be  restored  so  long  as  they  cling 
to  the  things  which  had  been  the  sources  of  their 
declension. 

210 


After  the  power  of  an  indissoluble  life. 

Heb.  vii.  j6  (R.  v.,  marg.). 

THIS  chapter  is  a  veritable  Psalm  of  Life.  It 
overflows  with  the  message  of  the  Easter  morning. 
Throughout  its  verses  it  is  witnessed  that  He 
liveth ;  that  He  ever  liveth  ;  that  He  liveth  after 
the  power  of  an  indissoluble  life. 

Remember  all  that  was  done  to  dissolve  and 
loose  it.  Satan  spoke  to  his  chief  captains,  Sep- 
ulchre and  Corruption,  and  bade  them  hold  his 
Prisoner  fast.  The  Sanhedrim  affixed  their  seal, 
set  the  watch,  and  made  the  grave  as  secure  as 
possible.  But  it  was  all  in  vain.  His  body  could 
not  see  corruption.  His  life  defied  death.  All 
through  the  Greek  mythology  there  is  the  wail  of 
infinite  sorrow.  Laocoon  and  his  sons  strangled 
by  the  folds  of  the  mighty  serpent :  day  always 
mastered  by  night :  the  year  with  its  wealth  of 
life  descending  to  the  abyss.  Strive  as  man 
might,  he  would  be  mastered  at  last,  and  prime- 
val night  reign  once  more.  But  all  this  is  altered 
in  Jesus.  He  is  Priest  after  the  power  of  an  in- 
dissoluble life. 

And,  what  is  more,  that  life  may  be  communi- 
cated to  us  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  is  not  only 
true  that  He  ever  liveth ;  but  also  that  because 
He  lives,  and  as  He  lives,  we  shall  live  also.  In 
the  first  creation  God  breathed  into  Adam  the 
breath  of  his  life,  and  he  became  a  living  soul ; 
but  in  the  second  creation  Christ  breathes  into  us 
the  spirit  of  His  life,  and  our  spirit  is  filled  with 
a  property  which  it  had  not  previously,  and  in 
which  the  sons  of  men  have  no  share.  "The 
first  man  Adam  became  a  living  soul.  The  last 
Adam  became  a  life-giving  spirit."  **  He  that  is 
joined  to  the  Lord  is  one  spirit."  See  to  it  that 
you  deny  your  own  life,  so  that  His  life  may  be- 
come evermore  regnant  within  you. 
211 


///  that  He  saith,  A  new  covefiant,  He  hath  made 
the  first  old.  Heb.  viii.  13. 

THERE  had  been  a  manifest  decay  and  van- 
ishing away  of  the  first  Tabernacle  or  Temple 
with  its  rites  and  services.  At  the  time  when 
these  words  were  written  there  were  evident 
symptoms  of  the  approaching  collapse  of  the 
whole  system  of  which  pious  Jews  had  been  wont 
to  boast.  But  the  Holy  Spirit  reassures  their 
failing  hearts. 

It  is  well,  He  seems  to  say,  that  these  should 
vanish  from  the  earth;  that  men  may  be  certi- 
fied that  the  old  covenant,  of  which  they  were 
the  sign  and  seal,  has  also  gone — gone  never  to 
be  recalled.  Thereupon,  the  very  natural  en- 
quiry was  suggested :  If  the  old  covenant  has 
decayed  and  vanished  away,  what  is  the  agree- 
ment or  arrangement  under  which  we  are  living 
now  ?  To  this  enquiry  the  present  chapter  is  an 
answer. 

Those  who  believe  in  Christ  are  still  in  cove- 
nant relationship  with  God.  A  new  covenant  has 
been  set  up,  which  indeed  is  as  old  as  the  ever- 
lasting hills.  It  is  the  covenant  of  love;  the 
covenant  which  says  very  little  of  what  man  does, 
and  much  of  the  I  wills  of  Jehovah  ;  a  covenant 
which  was  entered  into  between  God  and  His 
Son,  standing  as  Mediator;  a  covenant  which 
has  been  sealed  with  priceless  blood. 

The  provisions  of  that  covenant  are  enumerated 
in  the  foregoing  verses :  that  God  will  engrave 
His  law  on  mind  and  heart,  and  take  us  to  be 
His  people  and  be  our  God,  and  remember  our 
sins  no  more.  As  the  decay  of  the  symbols  of 
the  Old  Testament  indicated  that  it  was  vanish- 
ing, so  the  ever-fresh  beauty  of  the  supper  of  our 
Lord,  as  it  was  practiced  in  the  first  Church, 
witnessed  to  the  permanence  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment. 

212 


Unto  them  that  look  for  Hbti  shall  He  appear. 

Jleb.  ix.  28. 

THERE  is  an  evident  parallel  intended  be- 
tween the  first  and  second  Advent,  and  especially 
^in  the  manner  of  looking  for  it.  At  the  first  Ad- 
vent there  were  many  who  were  definitely  looking 
for  and  hastening  to  that  day.  Simeon  was 
waiting  for  the  consolation  of  Israel ;  and  Anna 
spoke  of  the  infant  Lord  to  those  who  were  ex- 
pecting redemption  in  Israel.  To  look  for  the 
consolation  and  to  look  for  the  redemption  were 
the  two  articles  in  that  early  creed.  And  pres- 
ently this  quiet,  patient  waiting  broke  out  into  the 
rapturous  song  of  the  Nunc  Dimittis. 

But  all  Jews  were  not  looking  for  that  blessed 
Hope,  the  appearance  of  the  Grace  of  God. 
When  our  Lord  came,  the  leading  teacher  of 
Judaism  was  Philo,  and  he  not  only  had  no  Mes- 
sianic hopes  of  his  own,  but  discouraged  them  in 
other  people.  He  conceded  that  there  might  be 
a  return  of  Jewish  national  life ;  but  he  had  no 
expectation  of  it  being  under  the  leadership  of 
the  Christ. 

It  has  been  truly  remarked  that  this  eager  look- 
ing for  the  Advent  has  always  been  the  mark  of 
the  living  Church.  '*  Ye  turned,"  said  the  apos- 
tle, ''unto  God  from  idols  ...  to  wait  for  His 
Son  from  heaven."  And  again  he  said,  "A 
crown  of  righteousness  which  the  Lord,  the  right- 
eous Judge,  shall  give  unto  me  in  that  day ;  and 
not  to  me  only,  but  to  all  them  that  love  His  ap- 
pearing." 

As  it  was  with  the  first  Advent  it  shall  be  with 
the  second.  The  Son  of  God  will  come  at  a 
time  and  in  a  manner  for  which  men  are  not  pre- 
pared ;  and  only  the  elect,  who  may  have  been 
contemned  and  despised  by  the  world  at  large, 
will  discern  Him,  and  go  forth  to  meet  Him  in 
the  air. 

213 


He  taketh  away  the  firsts  that  He  may  establish 
the  second,  Heb.  x.  g. 

THE  meaning  of  this  is  clear.  In  the  old  cov- 
enant the  stress  was  laid  on  the  outward  rite ;  but 
in  the  new  covenant,  for  burnt-offerings  and 
sacrifices  for  sin  are  substituted  first  the  entire  de- 
votion and  consecration  of  the  blessed  Lord  to 
His  Father's  will ;  and  next,  ours  in  Him. 

It  is  very  noticeable  that  by  the  offering  of  the 
cross,  in  which  the  Saviour's  yielded  will  culmi- 
nated, we  are  said  to  have  been  sanctified,  conse- 
crated, or  set  apart  once  for  all  (ver.  lo).  The 
thought  there  is,  evidently,  that  our  Saviour's 
death  has  implicated  us  forevermore;  and  that 
His  Church,  whom  He  represented  in  that  su- 
preme act,  is  forever  pledged  to  be  dead  unto  the 
world  and  sin. 

But  still  later  we  learn  that  He  hath  perfected 
forever  them  that  are  sanctified  (ver.  14).  The 
change  of  tense  surely  indicates  that  what  was 
accomplished  for  us  in  the  purpose  of  God  when 
Jesus  died,  must  be  accomplished  in  us  by  the 
operation  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Every  time,  there- 
fore, our  will  is  brought  into  more  perfect  union 
with  that  of  God,  a  further  step  is  taken  toward 
that  glorious  elevation  which  Jesus  made  ours  in 
the  death  of  the  cross. 

And  if  you  would  have  an  incentive  to  this, 
remember  how  Jesus  promised  that  all  who  would 
do  the  will  of  God  should  be  reckoned  members 
of  the  holy  family  (Matt.  xii.  46-50).  Are  you 
a  member  of  that  family  ?  You  may  be,  and  sit 
only  on  the  outer  circle,  for  the  constituent  mem- 
bers are  always  altering  their  position  toward  the 
central  Christ ;  now  advancing  toward  the  inner 
heart,  now  receding.  Oh,  see  to  it  that  you  are 
not  only  within  the  holy  circle  of  the  will  of  God, 
but  that  you  are  near  the  golden  centre  where 
Jesus  is  seated. 

214 


They  without  us  should  not  be  made  perfect. 

Heb.  xi.  40. 

THIS  chapter  proves  that  the  saints  of  all  ages 
are  essentially  one.  There  is  a  link  which  unites 
them  ;  a  thrill  which  passes  from  hand  to  hand 
around  the  circle.  One  theme  for  many  voices ; 
one  attitude  for  many  faces ;  one  inspiration  for 
many  hearts.  The  saints  that  lived  before  the 
Advent  and  those  that  have  lived  since  are  one  in 
their  faith  in  the  living  God,  making  the  unseen 
visible,  the  distant  near,  and  seeing  the  eternal 
through  the  transient  and  ephemeral. 

And  now  heaven  waits.  Its  joys  are  not  com- 
plete; its  rapture  not  full.  The  blessed  are 
blessed  ;  but  there  is  yet  a  margin  between  what 
they  are  and  what  they  will  be — between  what 
they  enjoy,  and  what  they  may  enjoy.  The  choir 
is  not  full,  and  the  anthem  cannot  be  fully  ren- 
dered till  our  voices  blend  in  it.  There  is  a 
pause,  a  halt,  an  expectancy,  an  incompleteness, 
till  we  come.  Your  dear  ones  want  you  to  be 
there.  They  have  not  gone  far  into  the  heart  of 
God's  bliss,  but  are  lingering  near  the  gate  till 
you  have  joined  them. 

From  Switzerland  your  friends  write  you  to  say 
it  is  perfectly  beautiful,  but  *'it  will  be  better 
when  you  join  us ;  we  are  reserving  the  best  ex- 
cursions till  you  arrive ;  we  are  incomplete  with- 
out you  ;  make  haste."  It  is  thus  that  the  blessed 
await  us.  The  spirit  of  Heaven  is  well  repre- 
sented by  the  courtesy  of  the  old  prophet,  who 
would  not  sit  down  to  meat  with  Jesse  and  his 
sons,  till  David,  the  youngest,  had  come  thither 
also.  And  when  the  whole  family  is  gathered, 
there  will  be  a  perfecting  indeed,  from  which  no 
element  shall  be  wanting. 

Oh  rapture  of  eternal  joy  !     We  stretch  out  our 
hands  in   yearning  desire,  and  doing   so  touch 
other  hands  reached  toward  ours  ! 
216 


Ye  are  come  imto  Mount  Sion. 

Heb.  xii.  22. 

THESE  poor  Hebrew  Christians,  outcast  from 
their  Temple,  and  soon  to  see  their  beloved  city 
vanish  from  the  earth,  were  sore  at  heart.  What 
a  contrast  was  presented  by  the  bare  room  in 
which  they  celebrated  the  simple  supper  and  the 
splendid  Temple  with  its  magnificent  rites  !  What 
a  tiny  rill  their  hymns  were,  compared  with  the 
mighty  torrent  of  Temple  psalmody  !  What  a 
handful  of  worshippers,  compared  with  the  mul- 
titudes that  congregated  from  all  the  world ! 
Sometimes  it  seemed  as  though  the  contrast  were 
unbearable. 

Then  said  the  Holy  Ghost,  lift  up  your  eyes 
and  see.  Ye  are  not  the  lonely,  isolated  handful 
ye  suppose.  Every  time  you  offer  your  prayer 
and  sing  your  hymns  ye  are  joining  with  the 
spirits  of  the  perfected  just,  with  numberless 
holy  angels,  and  with  vast  multitudes  in  heaven 
and  on  earth  who  are  ever  adoring  Christ.  You 
climb  the  temple  of  Worship,  of  which  the  steps 
are  prayers  and  the  gates  praise,  and  as  you  do 
so,  on  either  hand  go  myriads  of  happy  and  holy 
spirits;  and  those  surely  are  specially  near 
whom  you  ''have  loved  long  since  and  lost 
awhile." 

What  special  blessing  these  thoughts  will  bring 
to  the  bedridden,  who  for  many  years  have  not 
entered  the  courts  of  God's  house;  to  the  aged, 
and  lonely,  and  exiled  !  We  never  worship  God 
alone.  As  soon  as  we  begin  to  pray,  we  say.  Our 
Father  which  art  in  heaven,  forgive  our  sins ;  give 
us  our  daily  bread.  We  need  not  die  to  pass 
within  thy  gates,  O  Jerusalem,  city  of  God  ! 
Already  we  tread  thy  golden  pavement,  and  hear 
the  music  of  the  waters  of  life,  and  press  to  our 
wounds  the  leaves  of  thy  tree. 
216 


Make  you  perfect  in  every  good  work  to  do  His 
will.  Heb.  xiii.  21. 

TO  perfect  is  to  adjust,  to  put  in  joint,  to  ar- 
ticulate us  with  the  living  Saviour.  It  may  be 
described  as  a  surgical  operation.  Too  many  of 
those  who  are  in  the  Body  of  Christ  are  not  in 
living  articulate  union  with  Him.  Hence  the 
writer  asks  that  we  may  be  properly  jointed  with 
Christ. 

The  Agent  of  this  process. — The  God  of  Peace. 
Let  us  not  be  afraid  of  Him,  as  though  He  must 
use  some  terrible  anguish,  some  heartrending  grief. 
He  will  not  shrink  from  this,  if  all  other  methods 
fail ;  but  He  prefers  to  achieve  His  purpose  by 
gentle,  tender,  peaceful  means.  He  is  the  God 
of  the  summer  evening ;  of  the  bursting  spring ; 
of  the  slumber  of  the  little  babe. 

The  Guarantee  that  He  will  perform  this 
process. — He  brought  again  from  the  dead  our 
Lord  Jesus,  that  Great  Shepherd  of  the  sheep; 
and  surely  the  power  which  achieved  that  bring- 
ing again  is  capable  of  any  demand  that  may  be 
made  on  it.  Will  He  do  so  much  for  the  Shep- 
herd, and  neglect  the  flock  ?  Will  He  give  Him 
the  victory,  and  forsake  those  for  whom  He  won 
it  ?  In  bringing  the  Shepherd  did  He  not  pledge 
Himself  by  the  most  solemn  sanctions  to  do  all 
that  needed  doing  for  the  weakest  of  His  sheep  ? 

The  Object  of  this  process. — He  adjusts  us, 
that  all  which  is  well  pleasing  in  His  sight  may 
be  readily  fulfilled  in  and  through  our  yielded 
natures.  When  the  helmsman  is  right  with  the 
captain,  the  boat  will  naturally  take  the  course 
that  the  captain  selects.  When  the  machinery  is 
adjusted  with  the  motive  power,  the  pulse  of  the 
piston  will  be  felt  away  at  the  furthest  loom,  with 
the  smallest  amount  of  leakage  and  the  largest  of 
result. 

217 


Unspotted  from  the  world. 

James  i.  27. 

"THE  white  flower  of  a  blameless  life!" 
The  view  of  pure  and  undefiled  religion  presented 
in  this  definition  was  characteristic  of  James,  sur- 
named  the  Just,  who  was  revered  even  by  the 
Jews  for  his  austere  piety,  and  whose  vesture  of 
simple  white  was  emblematic  of  his  stainless  char- 
acter. Whatever  may  be  our  views  about  the 
doctrines  of  Christianity,  we  must  see  to  it  that 
their  outcome  be  in  pure  and  holy  living.  Ortho- 
doxy of  view  is  utterly  worthless  unless  it  be  com- 
bined with  orthodoxy  of  life.  This  was  the  side 
of  truth  on  which  James  insisted. 

What  a  beautiful  conception  is  .here  !  The  un- 
spotted life  !  No  book  is  like  the  Bible  in  its  con- 
ceptions of  sin  ]  indeed,  we  owe  to  it  the  thought 
of  sin,  and  its  evil  in  the  sight  of  God.  But  there 
is  no  book  with  so  lofty  an  ideal  of  what  life  may 
become  when  it  is  yielded  to  the  grace  of  Christ. 
A  cleansed  heart,  and  an  unspotted  robe;  no 
sin  allowed  and  permitted  in  the  soul,  and  no 
evil  habit  allowed  to  dominate  and  enthrall  the 
life. 

But  how  is  it  to  be  ours?  (i)  Put  the  grave 
of  Christ  between  you  and  your  former  life,  and 
so  reckon  that  you  are  dead  to  all  solicitations 
that  would  induce  you  to  live  according  to  the 
lusts  and  passions  that  dominate  the  rest  of  the 
Gentiles.  (2)  Seek  by  use  to  exercise  your  spir- 
itual senses,  that  you  may  be  quick  to  discern 
the  first  and  most  distant  approach  of  tempta- 
tion, that  so  it  may  find  you  hidden  in  the  risen 
living  Saviour.  (3)  Let  the  blood  of  Jesus  be 
instantly  applied,  so  that  you  may  be  immedi- 
ately cleansed  from  the  least  spot  that  may  have 
defiled  your  dress.  (4)  Keep  away  your  eyes, 
and  speech,  and  feet  from  all  scenes  and  society 
that  have  a  defiling  influence. 
218 


Hath  not  God  cJiosen  the  poor  of  this  world? 

Javies  a.  5, 

THERE  is  nothing  that  men  dread  more  than 
poverty.  They  will  break  every  commandment 
in  the  Decalogue  rather  than  be  poor.  But  it  is 
God's  chosen  lot.  He  had  one  opportunity  only 
of  living  our  life,  and  He  chose  to  be  born  of  par- 
ents too  poor  to  present  more  than  two  doves  at 
His  presentation  in  the  temple.  All  His  life  was 
spent  among  the  poor.  His  chosen  apostles  and 
friends  were,  with  few  exceptions,  poor.  He 
lived  on  charity,  rode  in  triumph  on  a  borrowed 
steed,  ate  His  last  meal  in  a  borrowed  room,  and 
lay  in  a  borrowed  grave.  **  Hath  not  God  chosen 
the  poor  of  this  world  ?  ' '  Why  is  poverty  so  dear 
to  God? 

//  is  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 
— The  world -spirit  aggrandizes  itself  with  the 
abundance  of  its  possessions.  Its  children  vie 
with  each  other  in  luxury  and  display.  The 
spirit  of  Christ,  on  the  other  hand,  chooses  ob- 
scurity, lowliness,  humility ;  and  with  these  pov- 
erty is  close  akin, 

//  co7npels  to  sifjtpler  faith  in  God. — The  rich 
man  may  trust  Him;  but  the  poor  man  must. 
There  is  so  much  temptation  to  the  well-to-do 
classes  to  interpose  their  wealth  between  them- 
selves and  the  pressure  of  daily  need;  but  the 
poor  man  has  no  fortress  in  which  to  hide,  except 
the  two  strong  arms  of  God.  He  waits  on  Him 
for  his  daily  bread,  and  gathers  the  manna  falling 
straight  from  the  sky. 

//  gives  more  opportunities  of  service. — The 
rich  are  waited  on,  and  pay  for  servants  to  wait 
on  those  they  love.  The  poor,  on  the  contrary, 
are  called  to  minister  to  one  another,  at  every 
meal,  and  in  all  the  daily  round  of  life.  Herein 
they  become  like  Him  who  was,  and  is,  as  one 
that  serveth,  and  who  became  poor,  that  through 
His  poverty  we  might  be  rich. 
219 


10    LdM^"'^ 

If  any  man  offend  not  in  luord,  the  same  is  a 
perfect  man.  James  Hi.  2. 

THINK  of  the  sins  of  speech  !  How  innumer- 
able they  are  !  When  we  see  them  in  the  light 
of  this  chapter,  we  can  understand  the  holy  Isaiah 
saying,  *'Woe  is  me,  for  I  am  undone;  because 
I  am  a  man  of  unclean  lips,  and  I  dwell  in  the 
midst  of  a  people  of  unclean  lips  \  for  mine  eyes 
have  seen  the  King." 

The  sins  of  speech  about  ourselves. — The 
tongue  boasteth  great  things.  We  are  all  apt  to 
be  vain,  boastful,  exaggerated.  We  tell  stories 
that  redound  to  our  own  credit;  contrive  to 
focus  attention  on  our  own  words  and  deeds; 
and  even  in  delivering  God's  messages  manage  to 
let  it  be  seen  that  we  have  a  clearer  insight  into 
truth  or  a  closer  familiarity  with  God  than  our 
fellows. 

The  sins  of  speech  about  others. — *'  We  break 
the  law  of  courtesy,  and  become  harsh,  insolent, 
and  uncivil;  or  the  law  of  purity,  and  repeat 
stories  that  leave  a  stain;  or  the  law  of  truth, 
and  practice  insincerity,  equivocation,  and  dis- 
simulation ;  or  the  law  of  kindness,  and  are  harsh 
and  implacable  to  those  who  are  beneath  us  in 
station.  Or  in  our  desire  to  stand  well  with 
others  we  are  guilty  of  flattery,  servility,  time- 
serving, and  the  like." 

The  sins  of  speech  in  connection  with  God^s 
work. — We  disparage  other  workers  ;  compliment 
them  to  their  faces  on  addresses  they  have  de- 
livered, and  disparage  them  behind  their  backs ; 
pass  criticisms  which  take  away  the  effect  which 
their  words  had  otherwise  exercised  over  others ; 
contrive  to  indicate  one  defect  in  which  was  other- 
wise a  perfect  achievement.  Alas  for  us  !  How 
greatly  we  need  to  offer  the  prayer  of  the  psalmist : 
Set  a  watch,  O  God,  upon  our  lips  ! 
220 


The  Spirit  .   .   .  yearneth  for  us  eveti  unto  jeal- 
ous envy.  James  iv.  j  (R.  v.,  marg.). 

A  VERY  deep  and  remarkable  verse  !  The 
apostle  is  contending  against  the  worldliness 
which  was  so  rife  among  the  believers  he  was  ad- 
dressing. They  were  set  on  pleasure  ;  they  sought 
the  friendship  of  the  world,  and  became  unfaith- 
ful to  their  divine  Lover ;  they  were  proud  and 
high-minded.  He  went  so  far  as  to  speak  of  them 
as  adulterers  and  adulteresses  ;  and  then  adopting 
a  gentler,  pleading  tone,  he  says,  ''You  are 
grieving  the  gentle  Holy  Spirit  who  has  come 
to  dwell  within  you,  who  yearns  with  a  jeal- 
ous envy  to  possess  your  entire  nature  for  Him- 
self." 

The  Spirit  of  God  dwells  within  thee,  O  be- 
liever in  Jesus  Christ.  If  a  man  have  not  the 
Spirit  of  God,  he  is  none  of  His ;  and  since  thou 
art  undoubtedly  one  of  us,  thou  hast  most  cer- 
tainly the  Holy  Spirit.  But  the  mistake  of  thy 
life  consists  in  this,  that  He  hath  not  thee.  Some 
part  of  thy  heart  is  given,  but  not  all ;  and  this 
causes  Him  the  most  exquisite  pain,  like  that 
which  we  suffer  from  jealousy. 

.No  keener  pain  is  possible  to  the  heart  of  man 
than  to  have  good  reason  for  the  belief  that  a 
loved  one  is  not  wholly  true ;  that  there  has  been 
an  alienation  of  affection  which  was  once  whole 
and  entire;  that  another  is  receiving  a  part 
at  least  of  the  heart's  devotion.  The  fire  and 
screw  are  light  in  comparison  with  our  anguish 
then ;  but,  this  is  what  the  Spirit  of  God  suf- 
fers when  we  share  between  Him  and  the  world 
that  love  which  should  be  all  His  own.  "I, 
the  Lord  thy  God  am  a  jealous  God,"  is  as  true 
as  when  first  spoken  from  Sinai.  The  person 
of  Jesus  Christ  must  be  the  Sun  of  our  system, 
though  that  system  may  include  many  planets  be- 
side. 

221 


The  effectual  fervent  prayer  of  a  righteous  man 
availeth  much.  James  v.  i6. 

IT  might  be  rendered  literally :  ''  Very  strong 
is  the  suppHcation  of  a  righteous  man,  energiz- 
ing." When  a  man  is  right  with  God,  not  re- 
garding iniquity  in  his  heart,  nor  seeking  aught 
for  his  own  pleasure,  the  energy  of  the  Divine 
Spirit  moves  mightily  within  him,  and  his  pray- 
ers become  very  strong.  They  recall  the  Master's, 
with  their  strong  cryings  and  tears. 

The  righteous  man  finds  relief  for  suffering  in 
prayer. — "Is  any  among  you  suffering ?  let  him 
pray."  There  are  sorrows  we  cannot  tell  to  our 
dearest.  Surges  of  grief  sweep  over  us  for  which 
we  have  no  words.  Life  is  a  stern  fight  for  us 
all ;  and  each  heart  knows  its  own  bitterness.  But 
there  is  always  one  resort :  we  can  pour  out  our 
sorrows  into  the  ear  of  our  compassionate  and  mer- 
ciful High  Priest. 

The  righteous  man  prays  the  prayer  of  faith. 
— The  prayer  of  faith  is  that  which  is  so  sure  of 
the  Divine  answer  that  it  knows  that  it  has  re- 
ceived it,  though  there  is  no  appearance  of  its 
having  been  granted  to  the  sense.  We  can  only 
pray  that  prayer  when  we  have  asked  what  is 
in  God's  will  to  bestow.  But  righteous  men  can- 
not always  pray  thus,  because  they  do  not  know 
the  Lord's  will  on  matters  not  recorded  in  this 
book.  There  are  some  sicknesses  which  are  unto 
death,  and  we  cannot  pray  the  prayer  of  faith  for 
these.  If  you  cannot  pray  the  prayer  of  faith  ^ 
take  7nedicine,  and  use  the  best  means  in  your 
reach. 

The  righteous  man  can  affect  the  whole  history 
of  his  fatherland  by  his  prayers. — It  was  so  with 
Elijah,  as  we  learn  here.  It  was  so  with  John 
Knox,  whose  prayers  were  more  dreaded  by  Mary 
of  Scots  than  the  armies  of  Philip. 
222 


An  171  her ita lice  inco7'7'uptibIe  and  itndefiled,  and 
that  fade  th  not  away.  /  j'et.  i.  4. 

YES,  it  is  an  inheritance.  It  is  a  free  gift,  and 
yet  we  have  a  right  to  it.  We  do  not  ask  for  it — 
we  were  born  into  its  blessed  privilege.  The 
child  that  lies  in  yonder  cradle,  over  which  the 
coronet  is  emblazoned,  may  claim  his  broad 
ancestral  estates  simply  by  right  of  birth :  and 
it  is  on  that  tenure  that  the  saints  hold  heaven. 
By  God's  great  mercy  we  have  been  begotten 
again. 

Oh,  blessed  heritage !  Incorruptible !  The 
gnawing  tooth  of  decay  cannot  injure  it.  Moth 
and  rust  cannot  consume,  nor  thieves  break 
through  to  steal.  No  spendthrift  hand  can  scatter 
or  overspend  its  treasures.  Ufidefiled  I  Not  a 
stain  on  its  pure  robes ;  not  a  freckle  on  its  leaves ; 
not  a  taint  of  miasma  on  its  atmosphere.  Into 
the  city  entereth  nothing  that  defileth,  or  worketh 
abomination,  or  maketh  a  lie.  That  fadeth  not 
away !  To  use  the  Greek  word,  it  is  ainaran- 
thine.  Some  of  the  fairest  hopes  that  ever  blessed 
human  vision ;  the  most  delightful  friendships ; 
the  most  perfect  dreams  of  delight,  have  faded 
and  withered  before  our  eyes.     That  never  can. 

//  is  kept  for  us,  and  we  are  kept  for  it.  It  is 
reserved  in  heaven  for  you. 

"  I  have  a  heritage  of  joy, 
That  yet  I  must  not  see ; 
The  hand  that  bled  to  make  it  mine, 
Is  keeping  it  for  me." 

Who  by  the  power  of  God  are  guarded 
through  faith. — The  idea  is  that  we  are  being 
brought  through  an  enemy's  country  under  a 
strong  escort — as  the  women  and  children  from 
Lucknow,  between  the  double  line  of  English 
soldiers,  till  they  were  safe  from  the  onset  of  the 
Sepoys.  We  are  not  in  heaven  yet ;  but  we  are  as 
safe  as  if  we  were. 

223 


V-rw^^^' 


IVho  His  07vn  self  bare  our  sins  in  His  own  body 
071  the  tree.  i  Pet.  ii.  24. 

HE  came  i?ito  the  sinner's  world. — Himself 
sinless,  He  took  our  nature.  Accustomed  to  the 
pure  atmosphere  of  His  own  bright  home,  He 
allowed  His  ears  and  eyes  to  be  assailed  by  sounds 
and  sights  beneath  which  they  must  have  smarted. 
His  blessed  feet  trod  among  the  dust  of  death,  the 
mounds  of  graves,  and  the  traps  that  men  laid  to 
catch  Him.     And  all  for  love  of  us. 

He  lived  the  sinner' s  life. — Not  a  sinner's  life, 
but  the  ordinary  life  of  men.  He  wrought  in  the 
carpenter's  shed  ;  attended  wedding  festivals,  and 
heartrending  funerals ;  ate,  and  drank,  and  slept. 
He  sailed  in  the  boat  with  His  fisher-friends ;  sat 
wearied  at  the  well-head ;  and  was  hungry  with 
the  sharp  morning  air. 

He  sympathized  with  the  sinners'  griefs. — In 
their  affliction  He  was  afflicted.  He  often 
groaned,  and  sighed,  and  wept.  When  leprosy 
with  its  sores,  bereavement  with  its  heartrending 
loneliness,  dumbness  and  deafness,  and  devil- 
possession,  came  beneath  His  notice,  they  elicited 
the  profoundest  response  from  His  sympathetic 
heart. 

He  died  the  sinner's  death. — He  was  wounded 
for  our  transgressions.  He  was  treated  as  the 
scapegoat,  the  leper,  the  sin-offering  of  the  human 
family.  The  iniquities  of  us  all  met  in  Him,,  as 
the  dark  waters  of  the  streets  pour  into  one  whirl- 
ing pool.  He  stood  as  our  substitute,  sacrifice, 
and  satisfaction  :  the  guilt,  and  curse,  and  penalty 
of  a  broken  law  borne  and  exhausted  in  His  suf- 
fering nature. 

He  is  preparing  the  sinner' s  home. — *'  I  go  to 
prepare  a  place  for  you ' ' ;  and  no  mother  was 
ever  more  intent  on  preparing  his  bedroom  for  her 
sailor-boy  on  his  return,  than  Jesus  on  preparing 
heaven. 

224 


Fear  not  their  fear,  neither  be  troubled. 

I  Pet.  in.  14  (R.  v.). 

IT  was  a  time  of  very  real  and  fiery  trial  when 
Peter  wrote  these  words.  Persecution  was  al- 
ready beginning  with  the  House  of  God.  Th^ 
first  mutterings  of  the  awful  storm  which  was  to 
break  in  Nero's  terrible  atrocities  were  making 
themselves  heard  throughout  the  Roman  world. 
The  intention  of  this  Epistle,  therefore,  was  to 
encourage  these  scattered  saints,  that  they  might 
not  be  overwhelmed.  Some  who  read  these  words 
may  need  similar  comfort. 

Remember,  beloved  fellow-believers,  that  Jesus 
has  suffered ;  your  Lord  and  Master  has  trodden 
these  thorns  before  you.  See,  they  are  flecked 
with  His  blood.  Would  you  not  desire  to  be 
fellow- partaker  with  Him  in  His  sorrow,  that  you 
may  share  His  glory  ?  It  is  only  in  suffering  that 
we  can  properly  identify  ourselves  with  the  great 
anguish  of  the  world,  or  learn  to  comfort  or  pray 
for  others.  And,  probably,  none  know  the  inner- 
most tenderness  and  companionship  of  Jesus  like 
those  who  daily  fill  up  that  which  is  behind  of 
His  sufferings.  Besides,  their  fear  is  much  worse 
in  anticipation  than  in  actual  experience.  Prob- 
ably God  entirely  delivers  His  martyrs  from  those 
physical  tortures  which  to  on-lookers  might  seem 
unbearable. 

This  has  been  the  perpetual  testimony  of  the 
Armenian  refugees.  Miss  Codrington's  story  of 
her  experiences  in  China,  and  Dr.  Baedeker's 
statement  of  what  he  has  learned  in  his  wide  ex- 
perience amid  the  refugees  and  imprisoned  saints 
in  all  parts  of  Europe,  support  and  confirm  the 
same  conclusion.  Sanctify  Jesus  Christ  in  your 
heart  as  Lord  and  King.  Maintain  a  good  con- 
science ;  do  not  be  turned  aside  for  fear  of  man ; 
and  when  you  come  to  suffer,  you  will  find  the 
fire  has  lost  its  sting. 

225 


Ar7n  yourselves  with  the  same  mind. 

I  Pet.  iv.  I. 

THE  Church  was  redeemed  in  a  baptism  of 
pain  :  for  her  members  to  suffer,  and  by  suffering 
]p  overcome  the  world,  is  to  fulfill  the  forecast 
which  Jesus  gave  when  He  said,  *'  In  the  world 
ye  shall  have  tribulation;  be  of  good  cheer,  I 
have  overcome  the  world."  Arm  yourselves  with 
this  mind ;  put  on  this  thought,  this  resolution, 
this  purpose;  determine  that  suffering  at  least 
shall  never  daunt  you. 

The  reason  for  donning  this  armor. — Here  we 
have  no  continuing  city.  In  the  death  of  Jesus 
we  suffered  in  the  flesh,  and  ceased  from  our  con- 
nection with  the  world  which  cast  Him  out :  and, 
as  suffering  is  meted  out  to  us,  we  become  in- 
creasingly convinced  that  we  can  have  no  fellow- 
ship with  its  sins.  The  pain  which  the  world 
allots  to  the  followers  of  Jesus  widens  the  chasm 
between  them  and  it,  pulls  down  the  old  nests  in 
which  their  affections  once  built,  and  makes  them 
more  determined  than  ever  to  follow  their  Lord. 

The  choice  which  this  armor  i?ivolves. — No 
more  the  lusts  of  men,  but  the  will  of  God. 
Never  again  to  work  the  desire  of  the  Gentiles, 
but  to  live  according  to  God.  Not  henceforth  to 
bow  before  the  bondage  of  evil  habit,  but  with 
erect  and  upright  gaze  to  behold  the  face  of  Christ 
— such  is  the  choice.  Will  you  not  now  make  it 
at  this  solemn  moment,  as  you  stand  on  this 
watershed  between  the  two  continents — here  of 
the  morning,  there  of  the  midnight  ?  Follow  the 
King,  cost  what  it  may. 

The  nature  of  the  armor. — It  is  armor  of  Light : 
in  which  Christ's  nature  was  encased,  and  on 
which  all  the  shafts  of  man  and  devil  broke  into 
splinters.  No  weapon  that  was  ever  manufactured 
can  prevail  against  its  heavenly  temper. 
226 


After  that  ye  have  suffered  a  little  while. 

I  Pet.  V.  10  (R.  v.). 

SUCH  a  little  while !  In  the  Epistle  to  the 
Hebrews  (x.  37,  r.  v.)  it  is  called  a  very  little 
while.  The  late  Dr.  Gordon  loved  to  read  it, 
Yet  a  little  while,  how  little,  how  little  /  which  is 
the  literal  rendering  of  the  Greek.  A  little  while  ! 
compared  with  the  eternal  years;  with  the  far 
more  exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of  glory ;  with 
the  compensations  which  await  us  in  the  Home 
of  God.  Though  our  life  were  one  long  agony, 
it  would  seem  but  as  yesterday  when  it  is  passed ; 
a  dream,  or  a  sleepless  watch  in  the  night,  when 
the  morning  breaks. 

There  is  a  limitation  to  our  suffering.  It  is 
only  for  a  little  while;  but  every  moment  has 
been  fixed  by  the  immutable  purpose  and  love  of 
God.  The  hour  of  darkness  is  timed  with  an  ex- 
act measurement.  You  shall  not  suffer  one  mo- 
ment more  than  is  absolutely  necessary  for  your 
perfecting  of  God's  glory ;  and  for  every  moment 
there  is  an  ample  supply  of  grace. 

But  remember  also  that  in  Christ  God  has 
called  you  to  His  Eternal  Glory.  You  heard  that 
call  yeai-s  ago,  and  have  been  following  it  through 
days  of  evil  and  nights  of  pain.  But  the  gifts  and 
calling  of  God  are  without  repentance,  and  He  is 
waiting  to  fulfill  His  eternal  purpose.  What  a 
banquet  that  will  be  when  God  will  satisfy  the 
expectations  of  those  whom  He  has  called  to  par- 
take of  it ! 

And  the  suffering  is  being  used  in  ways  you 
little  understand  to  perfect,  stablish,  and  strengthen 
you.  It  is  from  sick  chambers  and  torture-rooms 
that  God  brings  forth  His  veteran  hosts  in  the 
day  of  battle.  Think  not  so  much  of  affliction 
as  of  the  love  of  Christ,  and  the  blessedness  of 
being  like  Him  and  with  Him  forever. 
227 


An  efitrance  shall  be  ministered  tinto  you  abun- 
dantly. 2  Pet.  i.  II. 

THERE  are  two  ways  of  entering  a  port.  A 
ship  may  come  in,  waterlogged  and  crazy,  just 
kept  afloat  by  continual  working  at  the  pumps ; 
or  it  may  enter  with  every  sail  set,  her  pennon 
floating  at  the  masthead.  The  latter  is  what  the 
apostle  desires  for  himself  and  those  whom  he 
addresses.  He  desired  that  an  entrance  abundant 
should  be  ministered  unto  them. 

An  abundant  entrance  is  really  a  choral  en- 
trance. The  idea  may  be  illustrated  from  the 
entrance  of  a  Roman  conqueror  to  his  city,  whence 
he  had  been  sent  out  to  war.  Amid  the  crowds 
of  spectators,  the  procession  climbed  slowly  to 
the  capital,  while  sweet  incense  was  poured  on  the 
air,  and  music  raised  her  sweetest  and  most  in- 
spiring strains.  Will  your  entrance  into  heaven 
be  like  that  ?  Will  you  enter  it,  saved  so  as  by 
fire,  or  to  receive  a  reward  ?  Will  you  come  un- 
recognized and  unknown,  or  be  welcomed  by 
scores  and  hundreds  to  whom  you  have  been  the 
means  of  blessing,  and  who  will  await  you? 
Will  your  coming  make  music  right  through  the 
home  of  God  ?  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  choral 
entrance.  It  reminds  us  of  those  words  of  Christ 
about  the  friends  whom  we  have  made  by  the 
right  use  of  money  welcoming  us  into  eternal 
habitations. 

The  conditions  on  which  that  choral  welcome 
will  be  afforded  are  clearly  enunciated  here.  Look 
back  to  verses  5,  6  (r.  v.).  There  the  identical 
word  of  the  choir  occurs  again,  translated  "sup- 
ply." It  is  as  though  these  eight  Christian  graces 
composed  the  octave  choir,  and  that  our  diligence 
in  acquiring  and  cultivating  these  will  be  re- 
warded hereafter  by  the  choral  welcome  into  the 
eternal  kingdom  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Wherefore 
give  diligence. 

228 


The  Lord  knoweth  how  to  deliver  the  godly. 

2  Pet.  a.  g. 

THE  following  authentic  story  will  best  illus- 
trate and  enforce  this  text.  I  give  it  as  it  was 
given  to  me  by  a  friend  who  had  verified  the  cir- 
cumstances during  a  visit  to  Blankenburg.  A 
godly  Lutheran  pastor,  Sander,  of  Elberfeld,  had 
been  compelled  to  rebuke  an  evil-liver  for  some 
gross  sin,  and  had  thereby  attracted  to  himself  his 
malicious  hate ;  and  the  man  vowed  to  repay 
him.  One  night  the  pastor  was  called  to  visit  a 
house  that  could  only  be  reached  by  passing  over 
a  plank  which  bridged  an  impetuous  torrent. 
Nothing  seemed  easier  to  his  enemy  than  to  con- 
ceal himself  on  the  bank  till  the  man  of  God  was 
returning  from  the  opposite  end  of  the  plank,  to 
meet  him  in  the  middle,  throw  him  into  the  deep 
and  turbid  stream,  leaving  it  to  be  surmised  that 
in  the  darkness  he  had  simply  lost  his  foothold. 
When,  however,  from  his  hiding-place  he  caught 
sight  of  the  pastor's  figure  in  the  dim  light,  he 
was  surprised  to  see  that  he  was  not  alone,  but 
accompanied  by  another.  There  were  two  figures 
advancing  toward  him  across  the  narrow  plank, 
and  he  did  not  dare  attempt  his  murderous  deed. 
And  as  they  passed  his  hiding-place,  the  one 
whom  he  did  not  know  cast  such  a  glance  toward 
him  as  convinced  him  of  the  sinfulness  of  the  act 
he  had  contemplated,  and  began  a  work  in  his 
heart  which  led  to  his  conversion. 

When  converted,  he  sought  out  the  pastor,  to 
confess  to  him  the  murderous  intention  which  had 
so  nearly  mastered  him,  and  said:  "It  would 
have  been  your  death  had  you  not  been  accom- 
panied." ''What  do  you  mean?"  said  the 
other;  '' I  was  absolutely  alone."  ''Nay,"  said 
he,  "there  were  two."  Then  the  pastor  knew 
that  God  had  sent  His  angel,  as  He  sent  him  to 
bring  Lot  out  of  Sodom. 
229 


One  day  is  with  the  Lord  as  a  thousand  years. 

2  Pet.  Hi.  8. 

THERE  is  no  succession  of  time  with  God  : 
no  past,  no  future ;  He  dwells  in  the  eternal  pres- 
ent, as  I  AM.  As  we  may  look  down  from  a 
lofty  mountain  on  a  stream  in  the  valley  beneath, 
tracing  it  from  its  source  to  its  fall  into  the  ocean, 
and  feeling  that  each  part  of  it  is  equally  distant 
from  the  spot  where  we  stand,  so  must  time  ap- 
pear to  the  Eternal ;  who  was,  and  is,  and  is  to 
come. 

One  day  is  as  a  thousand  years. — He  could  do 
in  a  single  day,  if  He  chose,  what  He  has  at  other 
times  taken  a  thousand  years  to  accomplish.  Do 
not  say  that  He  will  require  so  long  to  do  this  or 
that — to  restore  or  convert  the  Jews;  to  intro- 
duce the  millennial  age ;  to  undo  the  effects  of 
the  Curse,  and  fill  the  years  with  blessing.  Do 
not  say  that  He  must  have  as  long  to  make  the 
second  heavens  and  earth  as  the  first.  Do  not 
say  that  the  overthrow  of  the  empire  of  darkness, 
and  the  conversion  of  multitudes  to  God,  can 
only  be  achieved  by  the  processes  which  are  now 
in  vogue.  All  this  could  be  changed  in  a  mo- 
ment, in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye ;  and  between 
sunrise  and  sunset  God  could  effect  the  work  of 
a  thousand  ordinary  years. 

A  thousand  years  as  one  day. — Periods  that 
seem  so  long  to  our  finite  minds  are  not  so  to 
God.  A  thousand  years  in  our  reckoning  is  but 
a  day  in  His.  You  say  it  is  nearly  two  thousand 
years  ago  since  Jesus  died,  or  at  least  that  we  are 
in  the  evening  of  the  second  thousand.  But  in 
God's  reckoning,  the  Cross,  the  Grave,  the  Res- 
urrection, took  place  in  the  morning  of  yesterday. 
Take  wider  views  of  God's  horizon ;  believe  in 
His  mighty  march  throughout  the  centuries ;  He 
takes  up  the  isles  as  a  very  little  thing,  and  the 
centuries  are  the  beats  of  the  minute-hand. 
230 


If  we  say,   .   .   .   but  if  we  ivalk. 

I  John  i.  by  7. 

IN  three  marked  passages,  the  beloved  apostle 
guards  against  what  men  are  apt  to  say,  and  indi- 
cates to  them  what  it  would  be  better  for  them  to 
substitute  in  thought  and  speech. 

Meti  are  apt  to  say  that  they  have  fellowship 
with  Christ  aftd yet  continue  to  walk  in  darkness. 
— It  arises  sometimes  from  their  desire  to  stand 
well  with  their  fellows,  or  because  they  do  not 
realize  how  much  darkness  is  still  in  their  lives. 
But  whichever  be  the  cause,  they  lie  and  do  not 
the  truth.  It  is  better  far  to  walk  quietly  in  the 
light,  so  far  as  we  have  it ;  and  thus  we  shall  se- 
cure His  blessed  fellowship,  and  His  blood  will 
be  continually  cleansing  us  from  sin,  removing  all 
hindrance  on  Christ's  side  to  the  free  communica- 
tion of  His  choicest  gifts. 

Again,  men  are  apt  to  say  that  they  have  no  sin 
(ver.  8). — It  is  a  profound  mistake  on  their  part, 
arising  from  defective  ideas  of  what  sin  is,  or 
from  self-ignorance.  If  they  realized  what  God's 
standard  of  holiness  and  sinlessness  is ;  if  they 
understood  that  sin  consists  in  coming  short  of 
His  glory  as  much  as  in  distinct  violation  of  His 
will ;  if  they  knew  that  there  may  be  sin  in  motive 
as  much  as  in  act,  and  even  in  want  of  love — 
they  would  not  speak  thus.  As  it  is,  they 
deceive  themselves,  though  no  one  else.  It  is 
better  to  confess  our  sins  and  seek  cleansing,  even 
for  those  of  ignorance,  in  the  precious  blood  of 
Jesus. 

Again,  men  are  apt  to  say  that  they  have  not 
sinned. — Though  they  have  fallen  below  their 
own  standard,  they  do  not  like  to  admit  it,  and 
cling  tenaciously  to  their  position  of  having  got 
beyond  the  range  of  sinning.  Much  better  to 
admit  it,  and  obtain  forgiveness  through  the  one 
Advocate  with  the  Father,  Jesus  Christ  the 
Righteous. 

831 


The  world  passeth  away,  and  the  lust  thereof. 

I  John  ii.  ij. 

THE  world  stands  for  the  entire  system  of 
human  interests  by  which  we  are  surrounded.  It 
does  not  refer  to  what  God  made  by  His  cre- 
ative fiat  and  moulding  hands,  but  to  the  shows, 
fashions,  and  pursuits  of  men.  It  is  used  here  in 
the  sense  in  which  the  devil  took  Jesus  into  an 
exceeding  high  mountain,  and  showed  Him  all 
the  kingdoms  of  the  world  and  the  glory  of  them, 
and  said,  ''It  hath  been  delivered  unto  me,  and 
to  whomsoever  I  will,  I  give  it." 

The  word  used  of  its  evanescence  is  a  remark- 
ably interesting  one.  It  is  that  employed  of  the 
rapid  change  in  some  scenic  display  or  perform- 
ance. A  moment  ago  the  stage  was  full  of  life 
and  color ;  but  it  is  suddenly  deserted,  and  the 
actors  and  actresses  have  put  off  their  splendid 
dresses,  and  are  habited  in  mean  and  common 
attire.  Or  we  might  compare  the  passing  away 
of  the  world  to  the  dying  color  of  the  sunset. 
The  tempter  offers  us  some  bait,  some  outward 
object  which  appeals  to  the  eye  of  the  body  or 
the  mind,  and  we  reach  out  toward  it ;  but  as  we 
grasp  it  it  is  gone.  We  have  caught  at  a  soap- 
bubble,  have  journeyed  after  a  mirage,  have 
hunted  the  will-o'-the-wisp.  So  unsubstantial 
and  fleeting  are  the  things  with  which  the  men 
of  this  world  try  to  appease  their  immortal  appe- 
tite. 

But  it  is  to  be  noticed  that  the  desire  for  these 
things  is  even  more  evanescent  than  the  things 
themselves.  The  apostle  says  that  the  lust 
thereof  passeth  away.  The  power  of  enjoyment 
dies  away.  The  eye  is  sated  with  spectacles; 
the  mind  with  constant  change. 

How  great  the  contrast ! — ''He  that  doeth  the 
will  of  God  abideth  forever." 
232 


Beloved^  now  are  we  children  of  God. 

J  John  Hi.  2  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  our  privilege,  not  only  to  be  children,  but 
to  know  that  we  are  such.  ''  Such  we  are  "  (ver. 
I,  R.  v.).  The  world  knows  us  not;  but  God 
knows  us,  and  we  know  Him,  and  we  know  that 
we  are  His  sons  and  daughters,  through  regenera- 
tion and  faith.     How  do  we  know  ? 

We  believe  His  Word  (John  i.  12). — By  faith 
we  have  received  Him,  we  do  trust  in  His  name ; 
then,  by  the  authority  of  that  text,  if  there  were 
no  other,  we  may  claim  to  have  been  born  into 
the  Divine  household. 

We  have  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  (Gal.  iv.  6). — 
The  fact  that  our  hearts  look  to  God  as  Father, 
and  appeal  to  Him  with  the  infant's  cry,  Abba,  is 
a  proof  that  we  are  born  again.  Do  not  look  for 
an  audible  voice  in  your  heart,  but  notice  whether 
the  thought  of  the  fatherly  love  of  God  toward 
you  is  not  becoming  more  familiar  and  precious. 
It  is  not  the  perception  of  your  childship,  but  of 
His  fatherhood,  which  will  reassure  you. 

We  are  led  by  the  Spirit. — If  we  are  led  by  the 
Spirit,  we  shall  love  the  things  we  once  hated,  and 
hate  those  we  once  loved.  Our  choices,  tastes, 
methods  of  life,  habits,  and  companionships,  will 
undergo  a  radical  alteration. 

We  love  the  people  of  God  (^1  John  iv.  7,  r.  v.). 
— The  converse  is  also  true,  that  he  who  is  begot- 
ten of  God  loveth. 

We  do  not  presumptuously  a?id  habitually  yield 
to  known  sin  (i  John  iii.  9,  r.  v.). — The  apostle 
is  not  speaking  of  some  isolated  act  into  which  a 
man  may  fall  under  unexpected  temptation,  but 
of  habitual  courses  of  inconsistency  and  wrong- 
doing. Test  yourselves,  therefore,  whether  ye 
are  indeed  born  again. 

S33 


We  have  known  and  believed  the  love  that  God 
hath  to  us.  J  John  iv.  lb. 

LIFE  is  one  long  education  in  various  phases 
and  aspects  of  love.  First  as  a  child,  then  as  a 
friend,  then  as  a  lover,  as  wife  or  husband,  as 
father  or  mother.  We  are  perpetually  being  al- 
lowed to  sit  in  some  higher  form  for  the  progress 
of  this  Divine  study.  For  to  love  is  to  live.  To 
be  loved  is  to  drink  of  the  sweetest  cordial  that 
can  be  prepared  from  the  vintages  of  earth.  And 
all  is  intended  to  help  us  to  understand  better  the 
nature  of  God,  who  is  love.  As  each  new  ex- 
perience enters  our  life,  we  should  consider  a  fresh 
facet  or  angle  to  break  up  and  reveal  to  us  the 
glory  of  God's  love.  We  should  say  to  ourselves. 
Now  I  understand  and  know  more  accurately  than 
before  how  God  feels,  and  what  His  love  is. 

The  apostle  says  we  have  known  the  love  of  God. 
— Indeed,  it  is  so.  Through  years  of  life,  each 
of  which  has  been  filled  with  the  most  various  ex- 
periences, but  filled  also  to  the  brim  with  proofs 
of  God's  tender  loving-kindness,  we  have  had  in- 
numerable proofs  of  His  love,  for 

"  E'en  the  cloud  that  spreads  above,  and  veileth  Love, 
Itself  is  Love." 

The  apostle  says  we  must  believe  God^s  love. — 
Standing  on  the  sure  foundation  of  what  we  have 
proved  God  to  be  in  the  past,  we  may  look  on  the 
present  and  future  with  perfect  faith.  We  have 
known  Him  too  well  to  doubt  Him  now.  We 
have  known,  and  now  we  believe.  He  has  made 
no  mistakes.  He  is  making  none.  He  has  done 
the  best,  and  is  doing  it.  XVe  do  not  understand 
His  dealings,  but  we  know  Him  who  is  behind  the 
mystery  of  Providence,  and  can  hear  Him  saying  : 
"It  is  all  right^  only  trust  Me,  Fear  not!  it 
is  L" 

334 


We  know  that  we  have. 

I  John  V.  75. 

THIS  Epistle  is  full  of  certainty.  It  rings  with 
the  words  we  know.  And  in  these  words  we  are 
taught  that  we  may  be  certain  in  the  region  of 
prayer.  Probably  there  is  no  region  of  the  Chris- 
tian life  concerning  which  there  is  more  uncer- 
tainty than  this  of  prayer.  Perhaps  this  is  also 
the  reason  why  there  is  so  little  prayer.  Men 
doubt  the  use  of  spending  time  in  shooting  ar- 
rows, a  very  small  percentage  of  which  seem  to 
strike  the  target. 

The  first  conditio fi  in  true  prayer  is  to  be  sure 
that  it  is  accordifig  to  the  will  of  God. — It  is  not 
difficult  to  do  this  when  we  base  prayer  on  a 
promise.  And  this  is  what  we  should  do  to  secure 
definiteness  and  assurance.  There  is  nothing  that 
pleases  our  Father  more  in  His  praying  children 
than  that  they  should  bring  His  promises  to  Him 
for  fulfillment,  saying,  ''Do  as  Thou  hast  said." 
But  in  cases  where  there  is  no  promise  to  guide  us 
we  shall  discover  His  will  as  we  pray. 

The  next  cofidition  is  to  believe  that  God  is  lis- 
tening.— We  need  not  pray  long  to  know  this. 
Only  be  quiet  and  silent  before  Him,  and  a  blessed 
sense,  induced  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  will  pervade 
your  heart  and  mind,  that  you  are  literally  speak- 
ing into  the  ear  and  heart  of  your  Heavenly 
Father,  who  is  listening  as  intently  as  if  He  had 
nothing  else  to  attend  to  in  all  the  universe. 

The  third  condition  is  to  be  sure  that  the  thing 
we  asked  is  gra^ited. — It  may  not  have  come  to 
hand,  and  it  may  not  come  in  the  precise  form  in 
which  we  sought  it ;  but  it  is  ours.  We  must 
dare  to  believe  that  we  have  that  petition,  labelled 
with  our  name,  consigned  to  us,  perhaps  started 
on  its  way  to  us,  although  it  may  take  years  to 
come. 

235 


This  is  love,  that  we  should  walk  after  His  com- 
7na?idme?its.  2  John  6  (r.  v.), 

HERE  is  a  solution  to  many  difficulties,  and 
given  so  easily  and  naturally  by  this  beloved  elder 
to  the  elect  lady  and  her  children.  He  had  been 
laying  much  emphasis  on  truth,  and  combining 
truth  and  love  in  an  exquisite  unity.  Probably 
we  can  never  love  perfectly,  till  we  are  perfectly 
true.  If  you  examine  yourself  in  the  feelings  of 
distance  and  dislike,  which  you  have  toward  some 
individual,  it  is  almost  certain  that  you  will  come 
on  some  want  of  transparency  and  sincerity  in 
your  dealings  with  them.  It  is  also  the  case  that 
if  we  put  away  all  insincerity,  and  want  of  con- 
secration, as  between  us  and  God,  we  shall  come 
to  love  God  more  perfectly. 

What  deep,  sweet  rhythm  of  meaning  there  is 
in  the  first  three  verses  of  this  letter  !  One  reads 
them  over  and  over  again.  Oh  that  that  grace, 
mercy,  and  peace,  may  be  with  us,  from  God  the 
Father,  and  from  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
Father,  in  truth  and  love. 

The  difficulty  that  you  feel  is  that  you  do  not 
love  enough.  You  would  like  to  love  with  a 
strong,  undying  flame,  burning  steadily  toward 
Jesus  Christ,  cleansing  you  with  its  heat,  con- 
straining you  with  its  love.  But  perhaps  you  fail 
to  distinguish  between  love  and  the  emotion  of 
love.  They  are  not  the  same.  We  may  love 
without  being  directly  conscious  of  love,  or  being 
able  to  estimate  its  strength  and  passion.  Here 
is  the  solution  to  many  of  our  questionings  :  They 
love  who  obey. 

It  is  recorded  of  Dr.  Chalmers  that  when  a 
Scotch  girl  applied  to  be  admitted  to  the  sacra- 
ment, her  testimony  was  so  halting  that  it  seemed 
as  though  she  must  stand  back ;  but  as  she  was 
leaving  his  room  she  turned  back  and  said,  ''I 
canna  speak  for  the  Lord  Jesus,  but  I  could  dee 
for  Him." 

236 


For  the  sake  of  the  Name  they  went  forth. 

3  John  7  (R.V.). 

THE  beloved  elder  is  anxious  about  some 
travelling  evangelists,  who  had  gone  forth  to  visit 
the  churches;  and  is  commending  them  to  the 
care  of  Gains.  He  was  to  set  them  forward  in  a 
manner  that  should  be  worthy  of  God.  This  is 
a  high  standard  for  our  entertainment  of  brethren 
and  strangers  withal.  It  would  save  us  from 
niggardliness  and  stint,  for  God  is  never  miserly 
or  meagre.  It  would  equally  save  us  from  osten- 
tation, since  in  God  there  is  perfect  simplicity. 
It  would  pervade  our  behavior  with  the  most  per- 
fect grace.  But  notice,  in  respect  of  these  evan- 
gehsts :  — 

Their  motive. — <*  For  the  sake  of  the  Name." 
It  is  not  needful  to  say  whose  Name.  There  is 
one  Name  above  every  name ;  in  which  whatever 
we  do  is  to  be  done.  To  teach  the  meaning  hid- 
den in  that  Name ;  to  unfold  its  sweetness  and 
power ;  to  exert  its  spell  over  souls  that  had  never 
felt  its  magnetism ;  to  glorify  it  and  make  it  hon- 
ored and  beloved — this  was  their  one  thought  and 
aim.  Oh  that  we  were  animated  by  the  same 
gracious  motive  ! 

Their  delicacy. — They  would  take  nothing  of 
the  Gentiles.  It  seemed  to  them  incongruous  to 
go  for  alms  and  maintenance  to  those  who  do  not 
love  their  Lord.  Besides,  could  not  He  maintain 
His  own  servants?  They  certainly  would  not 
have  sanctioned  the  means  that  modern  Christians 
adopt  of  getting  money  from  the  ungodly. 

Their  welcome. — We  ought  to  welcome  all 
such  ;  and  in  doing  so  we  may  be  fellow-helpers 
with  them  and  with  the  truth.  It  is  a  very  beau- 
tiful act  to  link  ourselves  with  God's  honored 
servants  by  prayer  and  sympathy,  that  we  may  be 
counted  their  fellow -helpers  and  companions. 
237 


Keep  yourselves  in  the  love  of  God. 

jfude  21. 

THERE  is  a  strong  current  running.  If  you 
keep  in  its  main  stream,  it  will  bear  you  gently 
but  irresistibly  forward  ;  but  there  are  so  many 
side-currents,  that  we  must  be  very  careful  not  to 
be  swept  out  of  it.  You  are  in  it  by  grace,  now 
keep  in  it. 

Build  yourselves  on  your  most  holy  faith. — 
Build,  not  on  your  emotions ;  not  on  your  con- 
ceptions of  what  may  be  right  or  wrong  \  not  on 
your  experience — but  on  the  strong  and  massive 
outlines  of  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints 
(ver.  3).  We  may  well  contend  for  it,  if  it  is  to 
yield  the  foundation  of  our  spiritual  upbuilding. 
In  other  words,  you  must  come  back,  again  and 
yet  again,  to  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  God, 
and  specially  of  the  life  of  Jesus. 

Pray  in  the  Holy  Spirit. — Wait  at  the  Divine 
footstool  until  your  prayers  are  indicted  by  Him, 
and  the  spring  arises  from  the  depths  of  God. 
And  whensoever  you  feel  the  inward  movement 
of  God's  Spirit,  yield  to  it.  He  will  correct  and 
prune  from  your  prayers  all  that  should  not  be  in 
them.  He  will  lead  you  out  in  intercession  for 
others,  and  for  the  glory  of  Christ,  of  which  you 
did  not  know  yourself  capable.  To  pray  in  the 
Holy  Spirit  is  to  let  the  Holy  Spirit  pray  in  you. 

Look  for  the  mercy  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
— Always  be  on  the  outlook.  Let  your  soul  stand 
on  tiptoe  in  anticipation  of  His  coming.  Let 
yours  be  the  words  of  the  Canticles,  '*I  sleep, 
but  my  heart  waketh ;  it  is  the  voice  of  my  Be- 
loved, that  knocketh,  saying.  Open  to  me,  my 
sister;  my  love,  my  undefiled."  The  heart  that 
waits  for  Jesus,  will  not  have  to  wait  in  vain. 
And  even  in  the  act  of  waiting,  it  will  be  kept  in 
the  love  of  God,  which  is  also  eternal  life, 
23S 


/  am  the  First  a?id  the  Last. 

Rev.  i.  II. 

IT  is  true,  O  Son  of  God.  Thou  art !  The 
First  in  order  of  Beings  and  last  in  the  full  com- 
pleteness of  Thy  glory. 

First  in  respect  of  Time,  for  Thou  art  the  ever- 
lasting Father — Father  and  Creator  of  the  ages ; 
and  when  time  shall  be  no  more  Thou  wilt  last 
forever.  From  e^'erlasting  to  everlasting  Thou 
art  God.     Thy  years  shall  not  fail. 

First  i?i  respect  of  Creation. — Thou  wast  be- 
fore all  things ;  Thine  was  an  age  prior  to  the 
creation  of  matter;  all  things  were  made  by 
Thee :  and  when  the  heavens  and  earth  that  are 
now  have  passed  away  forever;  when  the  ele- 
ments shall  have  melted  with  fervent  heat ;  when 
the  sun  shall  be  burned  out  and  the  stars  wane — 
Thou  wilt  still  be  the  last,  able  to  bring  into  be- 
ing new  heavens  and  a  new  earth. 

First  in  the  order  of  Redemption. — God  first 
loved  us.  From  before  the  foundation  of  the 
world,  Thou  wert  the  Lamb  slain ;  before  the 
foundation  of  the  world  we  were  chosen  in  Thee. 
First  in  the  love  that  resolved  to  redeem  ;  first  in 
the  mystery  of  Thine  incarnation,  lowest  in  the 
depth  of  Thy  descent  unto  death,  and  in  the  res- 
urrection through  which  Thou  becamest  the  First- 
born among  the  dead;  first  to  open  the  way 
within  the  vail,  to  bear  our  nature  risen  before  the 
throne,  and  to  inaugurate  for  man  the  life  of  res- 
urrection-power. 

First  in  respect  to  the  experience  of  Thine  elect. 
— None  is  to  be  compared  with  Thee,  Thou  Prince 
of  the  kings  of  the  earth.  Their  Alpha,  their  Be- 
ginning, the  Day-star  of  their  Hope,  the  Dawn  of 
their  Life,  the  Origin  of  all  that  is  good  and 
blessed  in  their  Life ;  whom  they  take  to  be  their 
Ideal,  their  Goal,  their  Aim,  their  Omega,  their 
End. 

239 


Q^-^Iu^^xAa^ 


I  will  give  him  a  white  stone. 

Rev.  a.  ly. 

THERE  is  every  reason  to  suppose  that  this 
white  stone  is  a  diamond,  and  that  it  stands  for 
the  Urim  and  Thummim  stone,  which  the  high 
priest  wore  in  his  breast-plate,  and  which  he  con- 
sulted for  the  oracles  of  God.  It  probably  dark- 
ened with  the  Divine  No,  and  grew  lustrous  with 
Yes. 

The  believer  may  have  direct  kiiowledge  of  the 
will  of  God. — You  may  have  your  white  stone. 
If  only  your  heart  is  right  with  God,  you  may 
know  His  will  for  your  path,  not  only  by  the  pil- 
lared cloud  of  outward  circumstances,  but  by  the 
inner  bearing  of  the  heart.  By  a  quick  intuition 
you  may  know  what  God's  mind  is,  both  when 
you  kneel  in  prayer  and  when  you  are  called  on 
to  act.  Only  the  surface  of  the  inner  life  must 
be  unruffled  and  pure ;  there  must  be  no  anxious 
agitation,  no  blurring  miasma  of  sin. 

Each  revelation  of  God's  will  carries  with  it 
a  deeper  knowledge  of  Himself. — On  the  Urim 
stone  were  engraven  the  mystic  characters  of  the 
Divine  name.  On  these  no  eye  but  Aaron's 
might  rest;  so,  deep  in  our  heart,  these  revela- 
tions of  God's  nature  are  given,  which  are  direct 
and  special  for  each  loving  and  obedient  soul. 
Eye  hath  not  seen  nor  heart  conceived  what  God 
says  to  His  children  about  life  and  death,  and 
Himself,  and  their  relationship,  and  the  glorious 
future. 

Such  revelations  are  in  proportion  to  our  over- 
coming life. — If  you  are  perpetually  yielding  to 
sin  and  impurity,  and  being  trodden  down  by  the 
heel  of  passion,  such  communications  from  the 
Infinite  will  be  rare  and  indistinct.  To  him  that 
over  Cometh,  not  once  for  all,  but  perpetually,  shall 
be  made  the  revelations  of  God. 
240 


/  will  make  .  .  .  a  pillar  in  the  Temple  of  my 
God.  Rev.  in.  12. 

ALL  who  lived  on  the  seaboard  of  Asia  Minor 
were  familiar  with  the  vast  and  beautiful  temples, 
in  which  Oriental  lavishness  and  Greek  art  com- 
bined to  realize  the  utmost  magnificence.  Their 
ruins  strew  the  deserted  sites  of  former  cities  to 
this  day.  The  Lord  therefore  used  familiar  im- 
agery in  this  promise.  A  column  hewn  from  its 
rocky  bed,  richly  sculptured,  and  conveyed  to 
the  rising  temple-structure ! 

Stability. — *^  Shall  go  no  more  out."  God 
Himself  shall  establish,  strengthen,  and  settle, 
the  soul  which  trusts  Him,  and  is  willing  to  follow 
at  all  costs  where  He  leads.  He  will  make  such 
a  one  to  be  as  Jachin  or  Boaz,  the  two  mighty 
pillars  which  Solomon  erected  in  the  Temple 
court,  their  names  signifying  establishment  and 
strength.  There  is  no  spectacle  more  inspiring 
than  to  behold  the  steadfastness  of  the  soul  that 
v/avers  and  swerves  not,  but  stands  to  its  post, 
though  all  nature  rocks. 

Responsibility. — The  pillar  bears  up  some  part 
of  the  structure;  and  it  is  Christ's  good  pleasure 
to  call  us  to  share  with  Him  the  weight  of  min- 
istering to  His  Church.  As  you  show  yourself 
true  and  faithful,  God  will  allow  you  to  bear  up 
the  common  life  of  His  people  by  ministering  com- 
fort, direction,  encouragement,  to  such  as  could 
not  stand  by  themselves. 

Beauty. — The  mediaeval  architects  and  masons 
took  great  pleasure  in  their  designs.  In  many 
cases  each  pillar  is  sculptured  as  to  its  capital  in 
its  own  fashion.  There  is  infinite  variety  and 
beauty  in  the  patterns.  So  Jesus  is  cutting  deep 
into  us  the  name  of  His  Father  and  Himself,  and 
making  us  bear  new  revelations  to  the  world.  Do 
not  shrink  from  the  deep  cutting  of  His  chisel. 
241 


A  door  opened  in  heaven. 


Rev.  iv.  t. 


YOU  must  remember  that  John  was  in  the  isle 
of  Patmos,  a  lone,  rocky,  inhospitable  prison,  for 
the  Word  of  God  and  the  testimony  of  Jesus. 
And  yet  to  him,  under  such  circumstances,  sepa- 
rated from  all  the  loved  ones  of  Ephesus ;  de- 
barred from  the  worship  of  the  Church; 
condemned  to  the  companionship  of  uncongenial 
fellow-captives — were  vouchsafed  these  visions. 
For  him,  also,  a  door  was  opened. 

We  are  reminded  of  Jacob,  exiled  from  his 
father's  house,  who  laid  himself  down  in  a  desert 
place  to  sleep,  and  in  whose  dreams  beheld  a 
ladder  which  united  earth  with  heaven,  and  at  the 
top  God  stood. 

Not  to  these  only,  but  to  many  more,  doors 
have  been  opened  into  heaven ;  when,  so  far  as 
this  world  was  concerned,  it  seemed  as  though 
their  circumstances  were  altogether  unlikely  for 
such  revelations.  To  prisoners  and  captives  ;  to 
constant  sufferers,  bound  by  iron  chains  of  pain 
to  sick  couches ;  to  lonely  pilgrims  and  wanderers ; 
to  women  detained  from  the  Lord's  house  by  the 
demands  of  home ;  to  domestic  servants,  missing 
the  blessed  opportunities  of  the  sanctuary — how 
often  has  the  door  been  opened  in  heaven. 
And  what  has  not  Nature  been  to  some  of  us  ! 
How  often  in  a  country  glade,  the  first  flower  of 
spring,  a  bird's  warble,  a  gleam  of  light  checker- 
ing the  path,  has  been  as  a  door  opened  in  heaven  ! 

There  are  conditions.  You  must  know  what  it 
is  to  be  in  the  Spirit ;  you  must  be  pure  in  heart, 
and  obedient  in  life;  you  must  be  willing  to 
count  all  things  but  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the 
knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ.  Then,  when  God  is 
all  in  all  to  us,  when  we  live,  move,  and  have  our 
being  in  His  favor,  to  us  also  will  the  door  be 
opened. 

242 


hi  the  itiidst  of  the  throne  stood  a  Lamb  as  it  had 
been  slain.  Rev.  v.  6. 

IT  is  a  marvellous  combination,  but  how  reas- 
suring !  Not  the  throne  without  the  Lamb,  else 
sinners  dare  not  venture  nigh  :  not  the  Lamb 
without  the  throne,  or  we  might  question  His  vic- 
tory, His  omnipotence  to  succor  and  save.  No ; 
but  the  throne  with  the  Lamb,  the  Lamb  and  the 
throne,  the  Lamb  in  its  very  midst. 

How  does  the  Lamb  come  there?  Surely 
meekness,  humility,  gentle  submissiveness  to  an 
irresistible  lot,  are  not  the  virtues  that  win  thrones  ! 
Perhaps  not  in  man's  world,  but  they  do  in  God's. 
In  the  eternal  world  the  passive  virtues  are 
stronger  than  the  active;  sufferers  wield  more 
might  than  wrestlers ;  to  yield  is  to  overcome ;  to 
be  vanquished  is  to  conquer.  It  is  because  He 
was  God's  Lamb  that  He  is  now  God's  Anointed 
King,  having  seven  horns  for  His  omnipotence, 
seven  eyes  for  omniscience,  and  seven  spirits  sent 
into  all  the  world  for  omnipresence. 

But  see :  the  marks  of  suffering,  of  agony  and 
death,  of  sacrifice,  are  stamped  upon  His  flesh. 
"  A  Lamb  as  it  had  been  slain."  The  redeemed 
ones  that  stand  around  tell  the  story ;  He  pur- 
chased and  cleansed  them  by  His  blood ;  He  is 
worthy  to  fill  the  throne  and  rule  forever.  He 
who  could  make  Himself  the  supreme  sacrifice 
and  offering  for  the  sins  of  the  world  is  worthy 
to  be  the  world's  King.  The  angels  corroborate 
their  verdict.  In  concentric  rings  they  stand 
around  the  throne  in  their  massed  myriads.  From 
ten  thousand  times  ten  thousand  clear  voices  the 
acclamation  rings  out,  Thou  art  worthy  ! 

Take  the  scroll  of  history,  of  empire,  of  our 
lives,  O  gentle,  holy,  victorious,  mighty  Lamb. 
Break  the  seals,  and  unroll  it  page  by  page.  All 
must  be  well  that  passes  beneath  Thy  tender  and 
mighty  hand. 

243 


Come  ! 

Rev.  vi.  I, 

THE  A.  V.  reads,  Come  and  see.  The  r.  v., 
with  the  majority  of  Greek  MSS.,  drops  the  last 
two  wordS;  and  puts  the  simple  word  come  into 
the  lips  of  the  four  living  creatures.  Indeed,  that 
word  rings  through  the  corridors  of  this  book  like 
a  clarion.  Come,  Son  of  God  !  Come,  accord- 
ing to  Thy  plighted  word  !  Come,  for  creation 
travails  in  pain  together  until  now  !  Come  re- 
store Thine  ancient  people,  and  bring  in  the 
golden  age  !  Come  !  Take  to  Thyself  Thy  great 
power,  and  reign  !  The  time  is  rife  !  Midnight 
has  faded  into  dawn,  and  dawn  is  lightening  fast 
to  day  ! 

The  ages  which  are  characterized  by  the 
bloodless  victories  of  civilization  and  peace  are 
incomplete  without  Thee  \  and  as  the  white  horse 
issues  forth,  men  are  not  satisfied  with  the  abun- 
dance of  this  world's  goods,  there  is  still  an  un- 
satisfied yearning  which  says.  Come. 

The  ages  most  saturated  with  blood — the  blood 
of  men,  shed  by  the  hands  of  men,  where  har- 
vests grow  rank  because  the  soil  has  been  so 
richly  fertilized  by  blood  and  tears — need  Thee 
sorely;  and  as  the  red  horse  comes  forth,  sad 
Mother  Earth,  who  has  received  so  many  mangled 
bodies  to  her  bosom,  bids  Thee  come. 

The  ages,  filled  with  plague,  pestilence,  and 
famine,  wherein  beasts  multiply  about  the  homes 
of  men,  because  there  is  no  hand  to  keep  them 
back,  since  men  have  perished  from  the  earth,  as 
the  livid  horses  go  forth,  cry.  Come. 

And  listen  to  the  cry  of  Thy  martyrs,  from  be- 
neath the  altar.  Is  it  not  time  to  arrest  the  heavy 
hand  of  the  persecutor,  and  avenge  their  blood  ? 
Then  come,  and  add  to  all  Thy  other  crowns,  the 
crown  of  all  the  earth  ! 

244 


The  Lamb  shall  guide  them  unto  fouiitains  of 
ivaters  of  life.  Rev.  vii.  //  (r.  v.). 

WE  do  not  live  until  we  have  been  born  again. 
The  moment  of  regeneration  is  the  first  moment 
of  life.  All  the  years  before  are  as  though  they 
had  never  been.  But  from  the  moment  we  re- 
ceive the  life  of  the  eternal  God  into  our  being, 
we  begin  an  endless  progression. 

The  entrance  of  that  life  makes  us  lambs  in 
the  flock  of  the  Good  Shepherd. — We  no  longer 
resist,  or  fight,  or  boast  in  things  of  which  we 
should  be  ashamed.  We  become  pure,  sweet, 
gentle,  lowly,  and  submissive.  We  are  willing  to 
lay  down  our  lives  for  others.  We  follow  the 
way  of  the  cross  without  murmur  or  complaint. 
Every  time  we  eat  of  that  bread  and  drink  of  the 
cup  we  witness  to  the  world  our  desire  to  absorb 
more  and  more  of  the  lamb-like  nature  of  the  Son 
of  God.  Hence,  it  is  said,  the  Lamb  shall  lead, 
shall  shepherd,  shall  tend  us  as  His  flock. 

The  life  which  God  has  implaiited  yearns  for 
satisfaction. — As  a  parched  flock  desires  the 
crystal  streams  that  purl  over  the  pebbles,  so 
the  flock  of  God  in  this  life  and  the  next  cry 
out  for  God,  for  the  living  God.  Nothing  will 
satisfy  God's  lambs  and  sheep  but  God  Himself. 
And  this  is  satisfied  in  Jesus.  In  Him  the  eter- 
nal God  comes  near  to  us ;  we  follow  Him  with- 
out fear. 

And  in  that  life  there  is  eternal  progression. — 
Jesus  leads  us  from  one  fountain  to  another,  from 
one  well  to  the  next ;  always  deeper  into  the 
heart  of  heaven,  always  further  toward  the  very 
centre  of  all  things,  which  is  God.  We  shall 
always  be  satisfied ;  but  our  capacity  will  con- 
stantly enlarge,  and  it  will  become  necessary  to 
give  us  fuller  manifestations,  according  to  His 
own  promise  (John  xvii.  26,  r.  v.). 
245 


That  he  should  add  it  unto  the  prayers  of  all 
saints.  Rev.  viU.  J. 

EACH  series  of  seven,  whether  of  the  candle- 
sticks, the  seals,  the  trumpets,  or  the  vials,  is  in- 
troduced by  some  appropriate  and  suggestive  ap- 
pearance of  Christ.  Here,  for  instance,  the  seven 
trumpets  are  restrained  until  this  inspiring  vision 
of  the  Redeemer  is  delineated  as  an  imperishable 
fresco  on  the  wall  of  Scripture. 

It  is  not  startling  that  He  assumes  here  the  ap- 
pearance of  an  angel.  This  was  His  frequent 
guise  in  the  ages  which  preceded  His  incarna- 
tion. And  as  to  the  priestly  function  here  as- 
cribed to  Him,  they  are  His  habitual  practice 
and  wont  throughout  the  present  dispensation. 
He  appears  in  the  presence  of  God  on  our  be- 
half. He  has  gone  within  the  vail  to  make  inter- 
cession for  us.  Such  a  Priest  becomes  us  who  is 
a  minister  of  the  sanctuary,  and  of  the  true  taber- 
nacle which  the  Lord  has  pitched,  and  not  man. 
And  since  it  is  necessary  that,  as  High  Priest,  He 
should  have  somewhat  to  offer,  there  is  given  to 
Him  the  praises,  prayers,  and  gifts  of  the  saints, 
that  He  should  mingle  them  with  the  much  in- 
cense of  His  own  merit,  and  present  them  at  the 
golden  altar  which  is  before  the  throne.  When- 
ever we  approach  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  we 
are  really  appealing  to  Him  on  the  ground  of 
that  presentation,  of  that  much  incense,  and  the 
prevalence  of  that  intercession. 

Our  prayers  appear  at  times  too  utterly  un- 
worthy to  bring  to  God.  How  can  we  dare  to 
believe  that  they  can  be  acceptable  to  the  Holy 
God  !  Granted  !  It  is  all  true.  But  never  for- 
get the  much  incense  which  is  added  to  each 
petition ;  and  remember  that  Christ  gave  Him- 
self unto  God,  and  is  perpetually  giving  Himself, 
for  us,  an  offering  and  a  sacrifice,  for  an  odor  of 
a  sweet  smell. 

246 


j  I 

Only  such  me?i  as  have  not  the  seal  of  God  on 
their  foreheads.  Rev.  ix.  4  (r.  v.). 

THIS  reference  carries  us  back  to  chap,  vii., 
with  its  subHme  description  of  the  angel  ascend- 
ing from  the  sunrise,  having  the  seal  of  the  living 
God.  He  had  cried  with  a  great  voice  to  the 
four  angels,  to  whom  it  was  given  to  hurt  the 
earth  and  the  sea  (viii.  3). 

The  seal  of  God  !  Whatever  that  means  in 
this  pictorial  or  hieroglyphic  book,  we  know  what 
it  means  throughout  the  Epistles.  The  sealed 
have  no  doubt  about  their  personal  acceptance 
with  God.  They  have  set  their  seal  to  God,  and 
He  to  them.  They  realize  that  they  belong  to 
Him  in  bonds  of  ownership  which  neither  life 
nor  death  can  dissolve.  They  bear  upon  their 
lives  the  impression  of  His  image  and  superscrip- 
tion. They  go  to  and  fro  about  the  world  under 
the  protecting  escort  of  His  high  angels,  who  are 
commissioned  to  bring  them  safely  to  their  Fa- 
ther's home.  They  have  been  anointed  as  kings 
and  priests. 

What  a  remarkable  inference  may  be  derived 
from  the  prohibition  of  the  previous  chapter,  and 
the  immunity  accorded  to  the  sealed  ones  in  this  ! 
If  the  hordes  of  horsemen  are  withheld  from 
touching  the  servants  of  God,  whom  the  Angel 
sealed,  we  may  infer,  when  no  such  caution  is 
uttered  about  our  lives,  and  no  such  immunity 
secured,  that  God  has  allowed  pain,  and  sorrow, 
and  death  to  hurt  us  for  some  sufficient  reason — 
one  which  we  shall  be  able  to  appreciate  when  we 
stand  in  His  light.  If  He  who  has  power  to 
withhold  the  power  of  the  adversary  does  not 
withhold  it,  the  assaults  which  make  our  frail 
craft  tremble  from  stem  to  stern  must  be  His  ap- 
pointment and  choice  for  us,  and  we  must  dare 
to  look  up  into  His  face,  and  say.  It  is  the  Lord, 
let  Him  do  what  seemeth  Him  good. 
247 


Time  no  longer. 

Rev.  X.  6. 

TIME  is  but  an  incident  in  the  procession  of 
eternity:  a  wreath  of  cloud  on  its  expanse;  a 
throb  of  its  pendulum;  a  drop  in  its  multitudi- 
nous ocean.  There  was  a  moment  when  it  be- 
gan ;  there  shall  be  another  of  its  pause  and  ces- 
sation. 

But  we  may  look  for  this  expiration  of  the 
Time  Ages  without  alarm.  We  have  already  re- 
ceived the  germ  of  the  eternal  life,  which  existed 
before  time  began,  and  will  last  when  it  has  ful- 
filled its  course.  •'  The  witness  is  this,  that  God 
gave  unto  us  eternal  life,  and  this  life  is  in  His 
Son.  He  that  hath  the  Son  hath  the  life."  We 
are  the  children  of  eternity  ;  our  eternal  life  dates 
from  the  moment  of  our  regeneration ;  we  know 
not  how  it  befell,  but  we  awoke  in  the  time  sphere 
to  discover  that  we  were  objects  of  an  eternal 
love,  and  that  we  are  destined  to  a  life  which  will 
outlast  the  universe  of  matter.  From  everlasting 
to  everlasting  Thou  art  God;  and  Thou  hast 
made  us  partakers  of  Thy  Divine  Nature,  who 
art,  and  wast,  and  art  to  come  ! 

The  margin  suggests  another  rendering,  that 
there  should  be  no  longer  delay  for  the  finishing 
of  the  mystery  of  God.  From  times  eternal  God 
has  been  elaborating  His  secret  purpose,  which 
surely  must  include  the  overruling  of  evil  for 
good ;  the  vindication  of  His  permission  of  evil ; 
and  the  final  restitution  of  all  things.  For  long 
that  mystery  has  remained  unfinished.  God  has 
not  told  His  deep  design.  To  many  question- 
ings He  has  given  no  reply.  But  the  moment  is 
at  hand  when  the  mystery  of  God  will  be  fin- 
ished, and  the  draping  vail  will  be  removed. 
Then,  beloved,  but  not  before,  you  will  under- 
stand. Then  you  shall  see  the  end  from  the  be- 
ginning ;  and  in  God's  light,  see  light. 
248 


ir 

There  was  seen  in  His  Temple  the  Ark  of  His 
Covenant.  Rev.  xi.  79  (r.  v.). 

WE  are  constantly  encountering  evidences  that 
the  Bible  is  one.  Its  writers  are  as  various  in 
their  styles  and  characteristics  as  their  respective 
ages ;  but  they  keep  striking  the  same  notes,  and 
making  allusion  to  the  same  objects.  We  have 
not  heard  of  the  Ark  for  centuries.  Now  we 
suddenly  meet  with  it  in  a  description  of  the 
coronation  of  the  Son  of  Man.  He  has  taken 
His  great  power  and  reigned.  The  kingdoms 
of  the  world  have  become  His.  The  portals 
of  the  temple  of  God  have  been  thrown 
open,  and  within  is  seen  the  Ark  of  the  Cove- 
nant. 

God  will  never  forget  His  covenant. — When 
once  He  has  pledged  Himself  to  a  nation  or  an 
individual,  to  Israel  or  Abraham,  or  to  Christ  and 
His  seed.  He  will  infallibly  stand  to  it.  All 
traces  of  His  faithfulness  may  elude  the  eye  of  the 
earthly  watchers,  obliterated  by  the  storms  of 
sorrows  that  sweep  the  world  ;  the  very  emblems 
of  the  covenant  may  have  passed  from  human 
custody;  and  the  time  may  be  long — but  at  the 
destined  hour  the  parted  vail  will  reveal  the 
Ark  of  the  Covenant,  as  though  to  show  that  the 
victory  of  Christ  was  the  fulfillment  of  that  ancient 
pledge. 

The  covenant,  which  means  blessing  to  God's 
children,  is  fraught  with  terror  to  His  enefnies. 
— "  There  followed  lightnings,  and  voices,  and 
thunders,  and  an  earthquake,  and  great  hail."  It 
was  so  of  old,  when  the  ark  brought  deliverance 
to  Israel,  but  disaster  to  Philistia.  The  savor  of 
life  and  of  death  ;  the  pillar  of  cloud  which  was 
light,  and  midnight  darkness ;  the  "  Come,  ye 
blessed,"  and  "Depart,  ye  cursed" — these  al- 
ternatives are  presented  to  us  all. 
249 


They  overcame  Him  because  of  the  blood  of  the 
Lamb.  Rev.  xii.  ii. 

THE  overcoming  and  casting-out  of  Satan  is 
the  theme  of  the  Book.  First  he  overcomes ;  then 
he  is  overcome.  Overcome  first  by  Christ ;  and 
secondly  by  those  who  belong  to  Christ.  Cast 
out  from  Heaven  to  the  heavenly  places  or  the 
air,  of  which  as  prince  he  wields  the  power.  Cast 
out  from  there  into  the  earth.  Cast  out  thence 
into  the  bottomless  pit.  Cast  out  thence  into  the 
lake  of  fire.  Such  are  the  stages  of  the  overthrow 
of  the  adversary  of  God  and  man. 

Though  Satan  has  no  access  to  the  presence  of 
God  now  that  the  risen  Saviour  has  entered  there 
by  virtue  of  His  own  blood,  yet  he  may  accuse  us 
to  our  own  conscience  : 


**  I  hear  the  accuser  roar 
Of  ills  that  I  have  done  : 
I  know  them  well,  and  thousands  more ; 
Jehovah  findeth  none." 

How  are  such  accusations  to  be  met  ?  By  the 
blood  of  the  Lamb,  and  by  the  word  of  our  testi- 
mony. There  is  no  force  so  potent  as  the  witness 
of  the  saints  for  truth,  purity,  and  spirituality. 
Oh  that  there  were  more  of  this,  by  life  and  lip  ! 
Oh  that  there  were  more  unswerving  loyalty  to  the 
King,  who  before  Pontius  Pilate  witnessed  a  good 
confession  ! 

For  when  this  is  so  Satan  gives  back.  The 
darkness  cannot  withstand  the  light.  Victory  is 
assured  to  those  who  love  not  their  life  unto  the 
death,  in  their  steadfast  obedience  to  the  truth. 
Then  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  life,  immunity  from 
the  second  death,  the  hidden  manna,  the  white 
stone,  the  morning  star,  the  confession  before  the 
angels  of  God,  and  the  pillar  in  the  temple  of 
Eternity ! 

250 


That  no  man  should  be  able  to  buy  or  to  sell,  save 
he  that  hath  the  mark.  Rev.  xiU.  jy. 

FROM  many  hints  dropped  from  time  to  time 
by  business  men  it  would  seem  as  though  the  time 
described  in  these  words  is  already  being  inaugu- 
rated. Christian  men  are  finding  it  increasingly 
difficult  to  carry  on  their  business  without  adopt- 
ing a  lower  standard  than  that  of  the  sanctuary. 
Tradespeople  are  strongly  tempted  to  adopt  two 
prices,  adulterate,  or  sell  beneath  their  samples. 
Workmen  are  hardly  put  to  it  when  association 
with  their  fellows  threatens  to  involve  them  in 
movements  from  which  in  their  secret  souls  they 
revolt.  How  much  business  is  done  over  the 
glass  of  wine  or  in  the  public-house  ! 

Under  these  circumstances,  Christians  must  re- 
solve : 

First,  that  they  will  not  trifle  with  their  con- 
sciefice,  but  will  dare  in  all  respects  to  obey  the 
law  of  Christ. — For  every  one  there  is  an  in- 
evitable choice  to  be  made  and  maintained, 
whether  a  clear  conscience  or  a  fortune  is  to  hold 
the  first  place  in  their  business  career.  At  many 
a  subsequent  crisis  the  decision  may  be  tested ; 
but  the  peril  of  reversing  it  will  become  always 
less. 

Second,  men  must  be  content  to  bear  poverty  as 
part  of  the  cross  of  Christ. — We  admire  and 
canonize  the  martyrs,  but  are  strangely  unwilling 
to  face  the  disgrace  of  poverty,  the  dens  and  caves 
of  the  earth,  which  they  endured  for  principle. 
Our  religion  will  cost  us  something,  or  we  may 
fairly  question  its  vitality  and  worth.  What  a 
man  will  not  suffer  for  he  does  not  value. 

Third,  Christian  people  should  teach  their 
children  the  nobility  of  frugality,  simplicity,  and 
contentfnent. — There  would  be  fewer  hearts 
broken  by  prodigals  if  we  lived  as  though  Chris- 
tian life  did  not  consist  in  our  possessions,  but  in 
God. 

251 


The  first-fruits  unto  God  and  unto  the  Lamb. 

Rev.  xiv.  4. 

WHAT  a  word  is  here  !  The  apostle  points 
to  the  radiant  throng,  grouped  around  Christ  as 
His  bodyguard  of  personal  attendants.  We  had 
just  beheld  in  the  previous  chapter  the  mighty 
legions  mustering  under  the  prince  of  darkness, 
and  which  furnish  a  strange  contrast  to  this  galaxy 
of  strength  and  beauty.  And  as  we  wonder  and 
admire,  we  are  told  that  they  are  but  as  the  first- 
fruit  sheaf  of  the  mighty  harvest  to  be  reaped  from 
the  earth. 

By  examining  the  first-fruit  sheaf,  we  are  able  to 
tell  the  nature  and  quality  of  all  the  other  sheaves 
that  stand  in  the  harvest-field  under  the  golden 
autumn  light.  It  is  by  studying  the  character- 
istics of  these  happy  and  holy  spirits  that  we  may 
learn  what  we  shall  be,  and  what  the  whole  body 
of  the  elect  shall  be  one  day.  Let  us  consider 
their  number,  their  character,  and  their  occupation. 

Their  number. — "With  Him,  a  hundred  and 
forty-four  thousand."  But  if  this  vast  multitude 
is  only  a  sheaf,  what  will  not  the  entire  harvest 
be  but  a  multitude  which  none  shall  be  able  to 
compute  ? 

Their  character. — Stamped  indelibly  with  the 
name  of  God  and  of  the  Lamb ;  singing  a  new 
song,  which  only  redeemed  hearts  can  learn  and 
redeemed  lips  utter ;  virgin  souls,  clad  in  stainless 
purity,  with  no  lie  in  their  mouths,  and  no 
blemish  in  their  lives;  purchased  from  among 
men  to  follow  the  Lamb.  Such  are  they  before 
the  throne. 

Their  occupation. — Adoration  :  they  sing  a  new 
song.  Loyal  obedience  and  companionship  :  they 
follow  the  Lamb  whithersoever  He  goeth.  They 
cannot  claim  aught  to  themselves.  Their  whole 
story  is  told  in  the  announcement  that  they  were 
purchased — purchased  by  the  blood  of  the  Lamb 
they  love. 

252 


h 


Righteous  and  true  are  Thy  ways,  Thou  King  of 
the  ages.  Rev.  xv.  3  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  the  scene  of  the  deliverance  from 
Pharaoh  on  the  shores  of  the  Red  Sea,  translated 
into  the  imagery  and  language  of  eternity.  The 
hosts  of  God  shall  emerge  ere  long  from  their 
long  oppressions;  by  suffering  they  shall  con- 
quer; they  shall  come  off  victorious  from  the 
beast,  and  from  His  image,  and  from  the  number 
of  His  name.  Behind  them  shall  be  spread  out 
the  sea  of  time,  so  calm  and  still,  so  hushed  from 
all  its  tumult  and  storm,  that  it  shall  seem  to  be 
like  sheets  of  glass ;  and  as  the  morning  of  eter- 
nity breaks,  it  shall  be  drenched  with  fire.  Fire 
here  is  probably  an  emblem  of  the  holiness  and 
the  judgments  of  God. 

Israel  broke  into  rapturous  thanksgiving,  as  the 
people  saw  their  enemies  dead  upon  the  shore. 
*'Sing  unto  the  Lord,  for  He  hath  triumphed 
gloriously  !  "  But  those  triumphant  notes,  though 
chanted  by  an  entire  nation,  shall  be  as  a  whisper 
compared  with  that  song  which  shall  break  in 
thunder  from  the  saints  of  all  the  ages.  Those 
who  were  brought  up  under  the  dispensation  of 
Moses,  and  the  followers  of  the  Lamb  in  the 
present  dispensation,  together  with  all  holy  souls 
who  have  overcome,  shall  constitute  one  vast 
choir. 

But  search  the  song  of  Moses  as  you  will,  you 
will  fail  to  find  one  note  that  equals  this  in  sub- 
limity. Here  are  the  saints  of  God,  trained  in 
distinguishing  the  niceties  of  righteous  and  holy 
government  and  behavior,  enabled  from  their 
vantage-ground  in  eternity  to  survey  the  entire 
history  of  the  Divine  dealings,  adoring  Him  as 
King  of  the  Ages,  and  acknowledging  that  all 
His  ways  had  been  righteous  and  true.  What  a 
confession  !     What  an  acknowledgment ! 


Behold,  I  come  as  a  thief.     Blessed  is  he  that 
watcheth.  Rex.  xvi.  i^. 

THE  Second  Advent  will  come  on  men  gen- 
erally suddenly  and  unexpectedly.  When  they 
say,  Peace  and 'Safety,  then  sudden  destruction 
shall  overtake  them,  as  travail  a  woman  with 
child,  and  they  shall  not  escape.  With  the  ra- 
pidity of  the  lightning  flash;  with  the  sudden- 
ness of  a  flood  or  avalanche;  with  the  surprise 
of  the  midnight  robber — Christ  will  come.  When 
men  are  asleep,  when  every  bolt  and  fastening 
refuses  admittance,  when  the  streets  are  still  and 
hushed,  behold  the  Judge  will  stand  before  the 
door. 

As  Lightfoot,  quoted  by  Dr.  Macduff,  suggests, 
the  allusion  may  be  to  a  Jewish  custom  in  the 
service  of  the  temple.  Twenty-four  wards  or 
companies  were  appointed  night  by  night  to  guard 
the  various  entrances  to  the  sacred  courts.  One 
individual  was  appointed  as  captain  or  marshal 
over  the  others,  called  the  "  Man  of  the  Mountain 
of  the  House  of  God."  His  duty  was  to  go 
round  the  various  gates  during  the  night  to  see 
that  his  subordinates  were  faithful  to  their  charge. 
Preceded  as  he  was  by  men  bearing  torches,  it 
w^as  expected  that  each  wakeful  sentinel  should 
hail  his  appearance  with  the  password,  **Thou 
Man  of  the  Mountains  of  the  House,  peace  be 
unto  thee  !  "  If  through  unwatchfulness  and 
slumber  this  were  neglected,  the  offender  was 
beaten  with  the  staff  of  office,  his  garments  were 
burned,  and  he  was  branded  with  shame. 

It  was  in  contrast  with  these  slumbering  Levites 
that  Jesus  pronounces  a  blessing  on  His  own  peo- 
ple who  watch  and  keep  their  garments,  and  are 
saved  from  the  reproach  of  spiritual  nakedness. 
Let  us,  therefore,  wait  for  the  promise  of  His 
coming,  looking  for  and  hastening  unto  the  com- 
ing of  the  day  of  God. 

254 


Drunken  with  the  blood  of  the  saints,  and  with  the 
blood  of  the  martyrs  of  Jesus.  Rev.  xvU.  6. 

PAGAN  and  papal  Rome  have  had  to  contend 
with  an  unbroken  hne  of  the  witnesses  of  Jesus. 
In  the  words  of  an  exiled  Huguenot,  "Since  the 
birth  of  anti-Christianity,  there  have  not  been 
wanting  those  who  have  cried  against  its  errors 
and  idolatries."  They  have  been  called  by  vari- 
ous names — Paulicians,  Waldenses,  Albigenses, 
Wicliffites,  Lollards,  Lutherans,  Zwinglians, 
Pietists,  and  Schismatics;  but  God  never  left 
Himself  without  witness.  They  might  all  have 
adopted  the  symbol  and  motto  of  one  of  them, 
'*A  lighted  candle  in  a  candlestick,"  with  the 
words,  ''The  light  shineth  in  darkness." 

But  how  terribly  has  the  vision  of  the  text  been 
verified  !  Think  of  the  persecutions  under  the 
Emperors,  when  the  entire  empire  was  filled  with 
fire  and  sword.  Take  the  single  instance  of  the 
Empress  Theodora,  who  slaughtered  and  drowned 
one  hundred  thousand  of  these  Paulician  Chris- 
tians. During  the  thirteenth,  fourteenth,  and  fif- 
teenth centuries,  Romanism,  then  in  the  plenti- 
tude  of  its  power,  gathered  itself  for  a  great, 
determined,  and  persistent  effort  to  crush  out  all 
that  opposed  its  supremacy,  and  to  clear  Chris- 
tendom of  heresy.  And  wherever  any  revival  of 
true  religion  took  place,  or  any  confessors  of 
Christ  could  be  found,  they  were  hunted,  if  possi- 
ble, to  death. 

We  have  not  yet  resisted  unto  blood,  in  the 
strife  against  the  sin  and  evil  of  our  time.  It  is 
not  that  the  world  or  the  professing  Church  loves 
us  better,  but,  probably,  we  are  deficient  in  the 
spirit  that  lived  in  the  martyr's  breast.  O  Spirit 
of  the  Living  God,  kindle  that  flame  of  love  again 
which  shall  make  us  willing  to  suffer  the  loss  of 
all,  even  of  life,  for  the  sake  of  Jesus  ! 
255 


Come  forth,  My  people,  out  of  her. 

Rev.  xviii.  4.  (r.  v.). 

WE  cannot  be  surprised  to  find  that  God  has 
people  in  the  midst  of  Babylon.  Probably  in  the 
most  corrupt  days  there  has  always  been  a  rem- 
nant of  seven  thousand  who  have  not  bowed  the 
knee  or  kissed  the  hand  to  Baal.  It  is  the  pres- 
ence of  true,  though  benighted,  piety  which  has 
perpetuated  the  existence  of  organizations  which 
are  an  offence  and  a  stumbling-block.  But  their 
presence  in  such  company  cannot  be  tolerated. 

It  is  often  argued  that  we  should  stay  in  the 
midst  of  churches  and  bodies  whose  sins  and 
follies  we  deplore,  in  the  hope  of  saving  them  for 
God  and  man.  And  such  reasoning  has  a  good 
deal  of  force  in  the  first  stages  of  declension.  A 
strong  protest  may  arrest  error.  A  vigorous 
policy  may  stop  the  gangrene.  But  as  time  ad- 
vances, and  the  whole  body  becomes  infected  and 
diseased;  when  the  protests  have  been  disre- 
garded, and  the  arguments  trampled  under  foot ; 
when  the  majority  have  clearly  taken  up  their  po- 
sition against  the  truth;  when  her  sins  have 
reached  up  to  heaven,  and  the  plagues  are  about 
to  befall — there  is  need  for  another  policy;  we 
have  no  alternative  but  to  come  out  and  be  sepa- 
rate, and  not  touch  the  unclean  thing.  **Let 
us,  therefore,  go  forth  unto  Him  without  the 
camp  bearing  His  reproach." 

The  place  from  which  we  can  exert  the  strong- 
est influence  for  good  is  not  from  within,  but 
from  without.  Lot  lost  all  influence  of  his  life  in 
Sodom;  but  Abraham,  from  the  heights  of 
Mamre,  was  able  to  exert  a  mighty  influence  on 
its  history.  Obadiah  might  hide  the  prophets  of 
God  by  fifties  in  a  cave ;  but  Elijah,  from  the 
Mount  of  Carmel,  was  able  to  exterminate  the 
priests  of  Baal,  and  call  back  again  the  people's 
hearts  to  God. 

256 


Blessed  are  they  which  are  hidden  to  the  marriage 
supper  of  the  Lamb.  Rev.  xix.  9  (r.  v.). 

AT  the  epoch  described  in  the  text  we  behold 
the  Church  of  Christ  unveiled  and  visible  to 
heaven  and  earth.  She  has  laid  aside  her  weeds 
of  sorrow,  her  ashen  garments,  her  evidences  of 
persecution  and  rejection,  and  stands  forth  a 
monument  of  grace,  the  masterpiece  of  Christ, 
the  joy  of  the  Bridegroom's  heart.  There  will 
be  no  churches  then,  but  one  Church,  which  will 
contain  within  her  borders  the  believing  ones  of 
all  the  churches. 

The  marriage  supper,  it  has  been  truly  said,  is 
the  arrival  of  that  epoch  which  the  redeemed  of 
every  age  have  anticipated.  It  has  been  the 
longed-for  day  of  patriarchs,  the  glowing  predic- 
tion of  prophets,  the  burden  of  songs,  the  hope  of 
the  Church,  the  era  for  which  creation  groans  and 
the  sons  of  God  pray. 

But  there  must  be  a  present  character  to  fit  us 
for  this  future  felicity.  Who  are  they  that  are 
thus  called  to  the  marriage  supper  ?  They  are  of 
every  kindred,  nation,  people,  and  tongue,  who 
have  accepted  the  promises  and  invitations  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel,  and  have  washed  their  robes 
and  made  them  white  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb. 
Let  us  now  pass  on  that  invitation ;  let  him  that 
heareth  say  come.  Let  us  go  forth  into  the  high- 
ways and  hedges  and  compel  men  to  come  in,  that 
God's  feast  may  be  furnished  with  guests.  Let 
us  not  be  content  with  the  first  refusal,  or  the  sec- 
ond ;  but  with  eager  persistency  press  on  men  the 
urgency  of  these  closing  hours  of  opportunity, 
remembering  that,  when  once  the  Master  of  the 
house  has  risen  up  and  shut  to  the  door,  it  will  be 
hopeless  and  impossible  to  secure  an  entrance. 
"Now  is  the  accepted  time;  now  is  the  day  of 
salvation." 

257 


A  great  white  throne. 

Rev.  XX.  II. 

GREATy  because  of  the  great  causes  that  will 
be  decided  there;  the  great  destinies  that  will 
impinge;  the  great  God  who  will  sit  there;  the 
great  eternity  which  will  be  decided  for  good  or 
bad. 

White,  because  of  its  immaculate  purity.  Sir 
Walter  Raleigh,  involved  in  a  network  of  malice, 
and  unjustly  condemned  to  die,  turned  from  the 
earthly  court  in  which  he  had  suffered  vile  insult 
and  cruel  wrong  to  the  thought  of  heaven's  un- 
impeachable truth.  Whilst  being  ferried  from 
Westminster  to  his  dark  cell  in  the  Tower,  which 
we  visit  with  hushed  footsteps  and  bated  breath, 
he  wrote  by  lamplight  of 

"  Heaven's  bribeless  hall, 
Where  no  corrupted  voices  brawl, 
No  conscience  molten  into  gold, 
No  forged  accuser  bought  or  sold, 
No  cause  deferred,  no  vain-spent  journey — 
For  Christ  is  there,  the  King's  Attorney." 

A  Throne,  because  a  King  will  sit  there,  the 
Son  of  Man,  the  Son  of  God.  What  a  change  is 
here  !  He  that  hung  upon  the  cross  in  shame, 
shall  sit  upon  the  throne  in  glory.  He  who  stood 
condemned  before  the  earthly  tribunal,  shall  de- 
cide the  destinies  of  the  race,  and  reveal  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Divine  government. 

But  that  judgment  will  not  affect  those  who  have 
fled  to  the  refuge  of  His  wounds.  These  cannot 
come  into  judgment.  Let  us  always  distinguish 
between  the  judgment  of  the  world-spirit,  when 
Jesus  died ;  the  judgment  of  sin  on  the  cross ; 
the  judgment  which  awaits  each  believer  as  to  the 
use  he  has  made  of  his  talents,  and  the  work  he 
has  done  in  the  world  ;  and  finally,  the  last  great 
judgment  which  has  to  do  with  those  who  have 
refused  the  love  and  light  of  God,  and  have  vol- 
untarily cast  in  their  lot  with  Satan. 
258 


The  sea  is  no  more. 

Rev.  xxi.  I  (R.  V). 

ALL  through  this  book  we  hear  the  clash  of 
the  waves.  Throughout  there  is  the  voice  of 
many  waters.  But  when  there  dawns  on  the  eye 
of  the  seer  the  bright  and  blessed  time,  which  is 
yet  to  come;  when  the  new  heavens  and  earth 
appear,  this  is  among  the  chief  attractions  of  that 
glorious  world — that  there  is  no  more  sea.  The 
sea  is  a  characteristic  emblem  of  this  age,  but  not 
of  the  next. 

There  shall  be  no  more  pat?tful  mystery. — To 
the  Jew  there  was  a  double  mystery  in  the  sea — 
that  which  lay  in  its  sunless  caves,  and  that  which 
lay  beyond  the  rim  of  the  horizon ;  and  because 
there  was  mystery  there  was  dread  and  alarm. 
We,  too,  live  on  the  shores  of  mystery,  and  float 
above  it,  with  only  a  plank  between  it  and  us. 
But  there  we  shall  know  as  we  are  known  ;  our 
questions  answered  ;  our  problems  solved. 

There  shall  be  no  more  rebellious  power. — The 
sea  is  the  emblem  of  untamed  power.  Lashed 
into  yeasty  foam  it  drives  the  great  ships  before  it 
and  eats  into  the  land.  Men  cry,  Let  us  break 
His  bands  asunder,  and  cast  away  His  cords. 
But  God  laughs  at  them.  Remember  the  motto 
that  England  struck  on  its  medal  to  celebrate  the 
destruction  of  the  Armada:  ''The  Lord  blew 
upon  them,  and  they  were  scattered. ' '  And  so 
shall  it  be  one  day  when  all  proud  opposition  to 
His  will  is  vanquished. 

There  shall  be  no  more  disquiet  and  unrest. — 
Life  is  like  a  voyage  over  the  sea — now  miles  of 
calm,  then  days  of  storm ;  now  monotonous  and 
slow  progress,  then  the  awful  stress  of  peril  and 
threatening  death.  Outside  of  Christ  life  is  like 
the  troubled  sea,  when  it  cannot  rest,  but  casts  up 
mire  and  dirt.  But  yonder  there  will  be  unbroken 
peace  and  rest. 

259 


dyput^' 


His  servants  shall  serve  Him  ;  and  see  His  face  ; 
His  name  shall  be  in  their  foreheads.  Rev.  xxU.  j,  4. 

THESE  are  the  three  elements  in  heavenly 
bliss : 

Service. — In  the  disciples'  prayer  the  Lord 
taught  us  that  the  will  of  God  is  done  there. 
Not  that  there  is  any  breach  in  its  perfect  rest. 
Activity  there  will  be  as  easy  and  natural  as  the 
play  of  the  bees  among  the  limes,  or  of  minnows 
in  the  pool.  There  will  be  no  strain,  no  effort, 
no  exhaustion.  To  stay  those  ministries  which 
the  blessed  render  to  Him  would  be  intolerable 
pain.  They  would  be  weary  with  forbearing,  and 
could  not  stay. 

Vision. — ''They  shall  see  His  face."  Here, 
through  a  glass  darkly;  there,  face  to  face. 
Here,  as  when  the  two  walked  to  Emmaus,  and 
knew  not  their  Companion,  though  their  burning 
hearts  might  have  told  them  the  secret ;  there,  as 
when  their  eyes  were  opened,  and  they  knew  Him 
(though  He  will  not  vanish  from  our  sight).  Oh, 
what  a  glad  surprise  ! 

Transfiguration. — "  His  name  shall  be  in 
their  foreheads."  The  name  of  God  is  the  total- 
ity of  the  Divine  perfection  and  beauty,  and  the 
bearing  of  His  name  on  their  foreheads  indicates 
that  they  are  becoming  like  Him,  whilst  they  see 
Him  as  He  is. 

There  the  Bible  closes  its  record,  finding  man 
in  a  garden,  leaving  him  in  a  city ;  demonstrating 
that  where  sin  reigned  unto  death,  there  much 
more  grace  reigned  through  righteousness  unto 
eternal  life,  giving  man  a  more  exalted  and 
blessed  lot  than  Adam  enjoyed  in  the  cool  of  the 
day  in  Eden. 


260 


A  List  of 


Rev.  F.  B.  Meyer's 
Works 


PUBLISHED    BY 


Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


New  York  :  158  Fifth  Avenue 
Chicago  :  63  Washington  Street 
Toronto  :  154  Yonge  Street 


Latest  Works, 


Patsl  t  A  Servant  of  Jestss  ChtisU 

i2mo,  doth,  $1.00. 

"Of  the  many  Sacred  Biographies  I  have  written,  this  has 
been  by  far  the  most  interesting.  For  days  and  weeks  together 
I  have  lived  in  the  company  of  this  glorious  man;  but  only  to 
feel  that  he  transcended  all  one's  loftiest  conceptions.  Like 
some  great  mountain  ran^e,  the  more  his  character  is  traversed, 
the  more  it  grows  on  the  imagination,"— /V^w  ^/le  Preface. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  holds  in  his  hand  the  key  to  his  reader's  heart 
and  conscience.  He  speaks  to  conscience  with  a  kind  of  author- 
ity which  it  is  not  easy  to  analyze  and  yet  harder  to  resist.  In 
this  volume  he  follows  Paul's  life  through  in  a  series  of  topics, 
every  one  of  which  is  rich  in  food  for  the  Christian  life."— TA^ 
Independent. 

Saved  and  Kept. 

Coun«:els  to  Young  Believers.      Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50c. 

"It  contains  twenty-three  short  addresses,  earnest,  direct  and 
spiritual,  as  everything  that  comes  from  the  pen  of  this  devoted 
preacher.  He  writes  the  preface  on  his  fiftieth  birthday,  and" 
as  he  reviews  the  past,  he  longs  to  utilize  the  lessons  and  warn- 
ings of  his  life  for  the  benefit  of  his  younger  brothers  and  sis-! 
ters  on  each  side  of  the  Atlantic."— TA^  Evangelist. 

"Pezctf  Perfect  Peace. 

A  Portion  for  the  Sorrowing.     i8mo,  cloth,  25c. 

"Though  the  book  is  a  little  one,  it  carries  much  more  con- 
solation than  many  larger  volumes  on  the  same  subject.  Mr. 
Meyer  does  not  remand  sorrow  to  an  imaginary  realm,  but 
facing  it  in  all  its  wearisomeness,  he  shows  how  faith  in  Christ 
enables  one  to  bear  it  and  profit  by  it." —  Tki  Congregationalist. 

Cheer  for  Lifers  Pilgrimage. 

Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50c. 

"This  little  book  is  one  of  the  author's  cheery  helps  for  the 
pilgrim  in  his  life's  journey.  Like  sweet  songs  his  words  soothe 
and  comfort  and  strengthen  the  heart,  and  help  it  to  go  for- 
ward, whether  in  the  peaceful  home,  or  among  the  temptation? 
of  the  world.  Would  that  Christians  had,  or  could  give,  more 
time  to  such  devotional  and  upbuilding  reading." — The  Chrii  • 
tian  Observer, 

A  dstaway,  and  Other  Addresses. 

i2mo,  paper,  15c.;  cloth,  net  30c. 

"Contains  the  sermons  delivered  by  Mr.  Meyer  in  New  York, 
Boston,  and  in  part  in  Philadelphia,  during  his  ten  days'  visit 
to  this  country  last  winter  (Feb.  1897.)  They  treat  of  the  hin- 
drances to  spiritual  growth  and  power,  of  the  evil  of  the  natural 
heart,  so  hard  to  overcome,  of  the  only  way  of  curing^  this  evil 
by  getting  Christ  into  the  heart,  of  the  work  of  Christ  and  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  of  the  possibilities  of  the  blessed  life  to 
which  the  writer  urgently  summons  his  readers."— 7%^  Sun- 
day School  Times.  , 


The  Christian  Life  Series. 

Each  i8mo,  doth  decorated,  30  cents. 
Tlif ough  Fife  and  Flood. 

"  God'3  purpose  running  through  our  lives,  often  leading 
'through  fire  and  flood,'  is  set  forth  in  these  pages.  The  au- 
thor's pungent  and  impressive  style  shapes  the  message  for 
encouragement  and  comfort."—  The  Presbyterian. 

The  Glorious  Lord. 

"It  abounds  in  Biblical  knowledge  and  evangelical  earnest- 
ness."—  The  Churchman. 

Key  "Words  of  the  Inner  Life. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  writes  fluently  and  forcibly  of  the  deep  things 
of  God,  and  fosters  spiritual  hunger  while  he  feeds  it." — The 

N.    y.  Observer, 

Gtlvary  to  Pentecost. 

"All  Mr.  Meyer's  books  are  welcome,  but  none  more  than 
this.  It  is  rich  food  for  the  aspiring  Christian." —  The  Standard. 

The  Future  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"Full  of  tender  comfort  and  helpful  suggestions."— 7"^^ /«- 
terior. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

"  He  always  has  something  to  say  that  is  suggestive,  cott* 
stantly  casts  light  upon  the  Scripture." — The  S.  S.  Titnest 

Christian  Living. 

"  Full  of  rich,  ripe  thought  and  strength  and  encouragement 
for  the  Christian  heart." — Christian  Work. 

The  Shepherd  Psalm. 

•  These  meditations  on  the  twenty-third  Psalm  are  earliest, 
devout,  practical."— T/^^  Evangelist. 


The  ''Blessed  Life'*  Editions. 

The  following  have  been  issued  in  the  new  ''  Blessed  Life 
Series,"  i8mo,  cloth,  ink  stampings,  each  30  cents. 

The  Shepherd  Psalm. 

Christian  Living. 

The  Present  Tenses  of  the  Blessed  Life. 

The  Future  Tenses  of  tfie  Blessed  Life* 


Old  Testament  Heroes. 

lamo,  cloth,  eight  volumes,  each  $1.00. 

"  Mr.  Meyer  is  unsurpassed  in  recent  times  in  his  faculty  ot 
helpfully  and  interestingly  adapting  studies  of  Old  Testament 
characters  to  modern  needs.  His  work  does  not  consist  of 
mere  pious  moralizing,  but  it  is  the  product  of  a  man  evidently 
of  scholarly  habits  and  attainments,  and  in  close  and  practical 
touch  with  the  life  of  the  people  of  the  day,  and  with  the 
strongest  and  clearest  convictions  that  the  simple,  plain  gospel 
of  Christ,  the  divine  and  atoning  Saviour,  and  the  Bible  the 
very  word  of  God,  are  indispensable  to  the  salvation  of  the 
world."—  The  United  Presbyterian. 

David :  Shepherd,  Psalmist,  King. 

"  As  in  all  his  works,  he  has  developed  the  spiritual  and 
practical  lines,  so  that  his  book  is  not  merely  a  record  of 
events,  but  the  story  of  a  great  life,  the  reading  of  which  will 
be  stimulating  and  profitable." — The  Sunday  School  Times, 

Jeremiah:  Priest  and  Prophet* 

"  It  is  at  once  a  biography,  an  interpretation,  and  a  terse  a:  :d 
practical  application  of  divine  truth  to  human  life.  It  is 
scholarly  but  not  pitched  on  too  high  a  key  of  learning  for  the 
common  reader." — The  Congregationalist. 

Joshua,  and  the  Land  of  Promise, 

•'  The  twenty  chapters  here  given  on  the  Book  of  Joshua  are 
so  many  lines  of  light  on  the  whole  period  and  its  main  charac- 
ters. The  great  leader  stands  out  in  relief,  and  his  relations  to 
the  age  are  traced  with  care  and  intelligence."— Z/^«'j  Herald. 

Moses,  the  Servant  of  God, 

"The  author's  analysis  of  the  character  and  history  of 
Moses  is,  in  some  respects,  the  best  which  we  remember  to 
have  seen.  Th*-  book  is  at  once  learned,  and  popular."— TA^ 
Congregationalist. 

Abraham?  or.  The  Obedience  of  Faith, 
"  He  is  throughout  reverent  and  thoughtful,  and  will  yoint 
out  to  many  a  reader  unsuspected  truth  and  beauty  in  the  Holy 
Scriptures.   — The  Watchman, 

Elijah,  and  the  Secret  of  His  Power, 

•Good,  exceedingly  good.  Mr.  Meyer  is  a  great  gain  to  the 
armies  of  evangelical  truth,  for  his  tone,  spirit  and  aspirations 
are  all  of  a  fine  gospel  sort."— C.  H.  Spurgeon  in  Sword  and 
Trowel. 

Israel,  a  Prince  with  God« 

"  No  Christian  is  likely  to  read  the  volume  ....  with- 
out being  wiser,  purer,  happier  and  more  devoted  to  his  Mas- 
ter. It  surpasses  any  book  we  have  seen  on  Jacob  and  his 
eventful  career."—  The  Baptist  Magazine. 

Joseph:  Beloved— Hated— Exalted, 

"We  trust  this  welcome  volume  will  find  readers  in  all  ranks 
and  classes,  among  old  as  well  as  your .7,  and  will  perform  a 
blessed  ministry  of  help  and  guidance  i.;  the  life  which  :s  ufe 
jftdeed  "—The  Christian. 


The  Expository  Series. 

Four  volumes,   i2mo,  cloth,   each  $i.o«, 

Christ  m  Isaiafu 

Expositions  of  Isaiah  XL,-LV. 

"The  redemption  of  Israel  out  of  Babylon  is  here  made  the 
subject  of  a  series  of  lucid  and  inspiriting  expository  essays, 
covering  the  section  of  Isaiah's  prophecy  devoted  to  that 
theme  (Chapters  40-55) .  The  quality  of  the  author's  w^ork  as  an 
interpreter  of  Scripture  is  already  well  known  and  highly  ap- 
preciated in  this  country.  Nothing  thus  far  issued  by  him  can, 
in  our  judgment,  deserve  wider  or  longer  favor  than  this  apt, 
keen-eyed,  eloquent  expansion  of  the  prophet's  inspired 
ffords:'—The  Watchman. 

The  Way  Into  the  Holiest. 

Expositions  of  the  Epistle  to   the  Hebrews. 

"The  aim  of  the  author  in  this  work  is  to  deduce  the  great 
spiritual  lessons  which  are  enshrined  in  the  sublime  words  of 
the  epistle.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  Mr.  Meyer  has  admir- 
ably succeeded  in  accomplishing  his  purpose.  The  expositions 
as  a  whole  strikingly  show  that  Christ's  death  was  substitu- 
tionary, and  they  also  exhibit  the  true  relation  of  the  Old  Tes- 
tament symbols  of  sacrifice  and  priesthood  of  the  Lord  Tesus 
Christ.  The  greatness  and  glory  of  the  Son  of  God  are  force- 
fully illustrated,  and  the  characteristics  of  the  ideal  Christian 
life  are  finely  described,  as  well  as  the  nature  of  the  discipline 
by  which  the  divine  character  is  perfected  in  man.  The  ex- 
positions are  admirable  specimens  of  lucid  spiritual  teaching 
couched  in  simple,  but  eloquent  language.  Loyal  disciples  of 
Christ  will  prize  this  tribute  to  the  honor  of  their  Lord.  It  is  a 
volume  of  rare  worth." — The  N.   Y.  Observer. 

The  Life  and  Light  of  Men. 

Expositions  of  John  I. -XII. 

"These  expositions  have  the  character  of  all  Mr.  Meyer's 
writings.  They  combine  devout  insight  into  the  rich  resources 
of  the  Word  of  God,  with  skill  in  adapting  it  to  the  spiritual 
needs  of  his  readers.  He  is  earnest,  practical,  personal,  and 
he  does  not  allow  his  good  intentions  to  supply  the  place  of  re- 
search and  study,  or  to  supersede  the  necessity  of  thinking  for 
himself.  And  he  rises  above  the  common  mistake  of  devo- 
tional writers,  who  assume  that  the  same  rules  will  suffice;  and 
the  same  experience  is  required  of  every  believer."— TA^  Sun- 
day School  Times. 

Tried  by  Fire. 

Expositions  in  the  First  Epistle  of  Peter. 

"The  popularity  of  Mr.  Meyer's  Expositions  is  a  good  sign 
of  the  times.  This  latest  is  one  of  the  best,  and  is  full  of 
tender  Christian  wisdom.  The  chief  charm  of  the  book  's  its 
earnest  simplicity." — The  British  Weekly. 

"As  is  well  known,  Mr.  Meyer's  style  is  vivid  in  description 
vnd  mostly  deeply  spiritual  in  insight  and  application." — The 
Christian  Advocate  {N.  V.) 


The  Bells  of  Is. 

lirhoes  from  my  Early  Pastorates.    With  Portrait 
i2mo,  doth,  75c. 

"  'rnis  book  is  brief— sixteen  short  chapters,  each  one  a  litue 
psalm  of  life.  Mr.  Meyer  has  left  the  impress  of  his  strong 
personality  on  the  book.  It  is  full  of  his  quiet  reveries,  his 
outreaching  toward  God  and  toward  souls,  with  practical  sug- 
gestions as  to  city  missions,  and  relief  of  poverty  and  distress?' 
—A.  T.  PiERSON,  D.D. 

Prayers  fof  Heart  and  Home* 

Morning  and  Evening  Devotions  for  a  Month. 
8vo,  flexible  cloth,  round  comers,  75c. 
"  Mr.  Meyer  has  a  gift  of  utterance  in  things  spiritual  such 
as  few  men  of  the  present  day  possess,  and  no  Christian  writer 
of  the  day  is  better  fitted  by  character,  training  and  experience 
to  prepare  a  manual  of  worship  than  he.  The  volume  will  be 
found  helpful  and  stimulating  in  the  highest  and  truest  sense." 
•-^Christian  Work. 

Tte  Psalms. 

Notes  and  Readings.     i8mo,  cloth,  60c. 
♦'An  admirable  little  volume,  which  should  prove  helpful  to 
any  preacher,  while  as  the  companion  of  the  private  student, 
it  should  be  invaluable." — The  Quiver. 

Light  on  Lifers  Duties,  and  The  Secret  of  Guidance. 

Two  vblumes  of  addresses.     Each  i2mo^  paper,  15c.; 

cloth,  net,  30c. 

Choice  Extracts  from  **  The  First  Steps.^ 
And  Other  Writings  of  Rev.  P.  B,  Meyer,  selected  by 
Rev.  B.  Fay  Mills.  24mo,  paper,  each,  5c. ;  per  dozen, 
net,  35c.     i6mo,  large  paper  edition,  15c. 

A  Holy  Temple. 

An  Address  to  Young  Men.     i8mo,  paper,  per  dozen, 

net,  20C. 

Envelope  Series  of  Booklets. 
Per  dozen,  net,  20c.;  per  hundred,  net,  $1.50, 

A  Keswick  Experience.  The  Secret  of  Christ's  Indwellr 
The  Trivial  Round,  The  Com-       ing. 

mon  Task.  Where  Am  I  Vl^rong  ' 

Peace,  Perfect  Peace.  Young  Men,  Don't  Drift. 

The  Secret  of  Power.  The  Lost  Chord  Found. 

With  Christ  in  Separation.  How  to  Read  Your  Bible. 

Seven  Rules  for  Daily  Living.  The  Secret  of  Guidance. 

The  Secret  of  Victory  over  Sin.  The  Blessed  Dead. 

The  First  Step  into  the  Bless-  Burdens,  and  What  to  do  Wifti 

ed  Life.  Them. 

Words  of  Help  for  Christian  In  the  Secret  of  His  Presence 

Girls.  Why  Sign  the  Pledge. 

The  Filling  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  Chambers  of  the  King. 

Not  Eradication.  The  Stewardship  of  Money. 

How  to  Bear  Sorrow,  Comfort  to  be  Comforted. 


Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Libraries 


1    1012  01276  7796 


^llllil 


'"I  WM 
11  

lllliliinil 


flli 


m 


m 


m 

lijiiii 
il'll; 

i 
m 


ill 


! 


mm 


li   ii 


.,!i;^l  II 


i 


i 


iiiiii 

iii'l 


ii    II 


,   I! 


s 


'Hlli 


'Ml 


'.  iil h 


