![ 


1  i  llli,, _ 


llliiilll; 


|ji||||:i;|i|i| 


illl 


li!    li 


UBRARY  OF  PRlNCETlM 


JUN      5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


R<?  491  .M49  1898  v.  3 
BS  *y-»-  •'     1847-1929 
Meyer,  F.  B.  -lo*' 
our  daily  homily 


J 


Our  Daily  Homily 

Volume   III :    Psalms-Canticles 


By  Rev.  F.  B.  Meyer 


Ttc  Shepherd  Psalm,     Illustrated.    Printed  in  two 

colors.     i2mo,  cloth,  gilt  top,  boxed,  81.25 ;  full  gilt, 

$1.50. 

The  Bells  of  Is,     Echoes  from  my  early  pastorates. 
With  portrait.    i2mo,  cloth,  75  c. 

Prayers  for  Heart  and  Home,  8vo,  flex,  cloth,  75  c. 
Paul :  a  Servant  of  Jesus  Christ.  i2mo,  cloth,  $1 .00. 

Old  Testament  Heroes.    8  vols.,  i2mo,  cloth,  each, 

$1.00  ;  the  set,  bo.xed,  $58. 00. 

Abraham.         Elijah.  Jeremiah.  Joshua. 

David.  Israel.  Joseph.  Moses. 

The  Expository  Series.  i2mo,  cloth,  each  $1.00  ; 
the  set,  boxed,  $4.00. 

Tried  by  Fire.  The  Way  Into  the  Holiest. 

Christ  in  Isaiah.  The  Life  and  Light  of  Men. 

The  Christian  Life  Series.    iSmo,  cloth,  each,  30  c. 
The  Shepherd  Psalm       Through  Fire  and  Flood. 
Christian  Living.  The  Glorious  Lord. 

The  Present  Tenses         Calvary  to  Pentecost. 
The  Future  Tenses  Key  Words  to  the  Inner  Life. 

***  The  first  four  also  issued  in  flexible,  decorated  cloth, 
i6mo,  each,  50  c.  ;  the  set,  boxed,  $2.00. 

Addresses.     i2mo,  paper,  each,   15c.;  cloth,  each, 
net,  30  c. 

Meet  for  the  Master's  Use        A  Castaway 
The  Secret  of  Guidance  Light  on  Life's  Duties 

Saved  and  Kept.    Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50  c. 

Cheer  for  Life's  Pilgrimage.  Long  i6mo,  cloth,  50  c. 

Peace,  Perfect  Peace.    i8mo,  cloth,  25  c. 

The  Psalms.  Notes  and  Readings.    1 8mo,  cloth,  60  c. 

Envelope  Series  of  Booklets.    Packets  Nos.  i  and  2, 
each  containing  12  Tracts,  assorted,  net,  20  c. 

Choice  Extracts.    24010,  paper,  each,  5  c. ;  per  doz. 
net,  35  c.;  i6mo,  paper,  15  c. 


FIcmingf  H.  Revell  Company 

New  York:  isSFifthAvc.        Chicvgo  :  63  Washington  St. 
Toronto  :  154  Yonge  St. 


Our  Daily  Homily 


Volume   III :     Psalms-Canticles 


By  the  Rev. 

F.  B.  MEYER,  B.A. 

AUTHOR  OF 

"The  Shepherd  Psalm,"  "  Old  Testament  Heroes, 
"Christian  Living,"  etc.,  etc. 


LIBRARY  OF  PRINCETdN 


N     5  2003 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMIN/JRY 


New  York      Chicago      Toronto 

Fleming   H.   Revell    Company 

Publishers  of  Evangelical  Literature 


Copyright,  1898 

BY 

Fleming  H.  Revell  Company 


"  Voice  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  making  known 
Man  to  himself,  a  witness  swift  and  sure, 
Warning,  approving,  true  and  wise  and  pure, 

Counsel  and  guidance  that  misleadeth  none ! 

By  Thee  the  mystery  of  Life  is  read ; 

The  picture  writing  of  the  world's  grey  seers, 
The  myths  and  parables  of  the  primal  years, 

Whose  letter  kills,  by  Thee  interpreted 

Take  healthful  meanings  fitted  to  our  needs. 
And  in  the  soul's  vernacular  express 
The  common  law  of  simple  righteousness. 

Hatred  of  cant  and  doubt  of  human  creeds 
May  well  be  felt.  The  unpardonable  sin 
Is  to  deny  the  Word  of  God  within." 

—J.  G.  Whittier. 


OUR  DAILY  HOMILY 


Whose  leaf  also  doth  not  wither. 

Psa.  i.j  (R.  v.). 

**IF  a  man  abide  not  in  Me,"  said  our  Lord, 
'*  he  is  cast  forth  as  a  branch,  and  is  withered." 
The  same  thought  is  here.  Thrust  down  your 
rootlets  to  the  oozy  river  bed,  and  there  is  no 
doubt  about  your  continuing  earnest,  patient, 
God-filled.  The  sun  of  temptation  may  strike 
you  with  sword-like  beams,  but  you  will  have  a 
source  of  supply  which  they  cannot  exhaust. 
The  secret  of  an  unwithering  beauty  is  in  the 
Word  of  God,  delighted  in  and  meditated  upon 
day  and  night.  And  what  is  the  Word  of  God, 
but  the  life  of  God  translated  into  human  speech  ? 

Wean  yourself  from  all  beside,  and  learn  to 
feed  on  God.  Withdraw  your  rootlets  from  men 
and  things,  and  let  them  travel  to  the  river  of 
God,  which  is  full  of  water.  Close  other  doors, 
and  open  those  that  lead  out  on  to  the  terrace, 
whence  you  may  behold  the  far-spread  landscape 
of  what  He  is,  and  says,  and  is  willing  to  be  to 
us  all. 

Note  that  word  meditate.  The  root  must  lie 
in  contact  with  the  stream,  and  the  soul  must 
steep  itself  in  the  Word  of  God.  We  must  give 
the  truth  time  to  enter  and  pervade  our  souls. 
We  must  have  retreats,  shut  away  from  the  rush 
of  life,  up  and  down  the  glades  of  which  we  may 
tread.  These  retreats  are  oftener  found  within 
the  soul  than  without.  Just  as  in  the  temple  of 
old,  there  was  Solomon's  porch,  where  Jesus 
walked,  so  in  the  temple  within  there  are  closes 
and  cloisters,  where  we  may  commune  with  our 
heart,  and  be  still. 

1 


This  day  have  I  begotten  Thee. 

Psa.  ii.  7. 

THE  Holy  Ghost  tells  us  that  this  was  ad- 
dressed by  the  Father  to  the  Son  in  His  Resur- 
rection (see  Acts  xiii.  33).  It  was  from  the 
grave  that  our  Lord  stepped  up  to  His  media- 
torial throne,  whence  all  the  hatred  of  His  foes 
has  had  no  power  to  dislodge  Him,  and  never 
shall  have.  Death  is  a  birth  into  the  true  life, 
Jesus  was  the  Firstborn  from  the  dead ;  we  too 
are  to  be  born  out  of  the  darkness  of  the  grave 
into  the  Life  Immortal. 

"There  is  a  beyond,  and  he  who  has  once 
caught  a  glimpse  of  it  is  like  a  man  who  has 
gazed  at  the  sun.  Wherever  he  looks,  he  sees 
everywhere  the  image  of  the  sun.  Speak  to  him 
of  finite  things,  and  he  will  tell  you  that  the  finite 
is  impossible  and  meaningless  without  the  infinite. 
Speak  to  him  of  death,  and  he  will  call  it  birth  ; 
speak  to  him  of  time,  and  he  will  call  it  the  mere 
shadow  of  eternity." 

'But  is  it  not  wonderful  that  He  has  begotten  us 
also  unto  a  living  hope  by  the  Resurrection  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  from  the  dead  to  an  incorrup- 
tible inheritance  ?  We  are  the  sons  of  the  resur- 
rection. In  Jesus  we  are  already  on  resurrection- 
ground.  Our  sun  shall  no  more  go  down,  nor 
our  moon  withdraw  herself.  For  us,  at  least, 
God  hath  destroyed  '*  the  vail  that  is  spread  over 
all  nations." 

Do  not  wonder,  then,  at  the  hate  of  men. 
They  will  rage,  and  imagine  vain  things  ;  they  will 
take  counsel  together.     It  cannot  be  otherwise. 

Thou  mayest  expect,  then,  to  be  bruised  by 
thy  brethren,  and  hated  by  the  world.  But  at 
such  times  Christ  will  come  to  thee,  and  give  thee 
fresh  accessions  of  His  resurrection  life,  carrying 
thee  into  the  hidden  house  of  His  abiding,  and 
confirming  the  weak  knees  and  the  heart  that 
faints. 


But  Thou,  O  Lord,  art  a  shield  for  me ;  my 
glory,  and  the  lifter  up  of  mine  head.     Psa.  Hi.  j. 

OH,  my  soul,  hast  thou  made  God  thy  glory? 
Others  boast  in  their  wealth,  beauty,  position, 
achievements :  dost  thou  find  in  God  what  they 
find  in  these?  Thou  needest  safety  from  the 
shocks  of  time  and  change  :  is  He  thy  shield  ? 
Thou  must  have  something  outside  of  thee,  to 
complete  thy  blessedness  :  is  He  thine  ideal  ?  Thy 
head  is  drooping  like  a  flower-cup — it  sadly  needs 
the  dexterous  hand  of  the  Gardener :  is  it  busy 
with  thee? 

Nothing  resting  in  its  own  completeness 

Can  have  worth  or  beauty:  but  alone, 
Because  it  leads  and  lends  to  further  sweetness, 

Fuller,  higher,  deeper  than  its  own. 
Life  is  only  bright  when  it  proceedeth 

Toward  a  truer,  deeper  life  above ; 
Human  love  is  sweetest  when  it  leadeth 

To  a  more  divine  and  perfect  love. 

God  around  us  as  a  shield,  God  above  and  within 
us  as  an  ideal,  God  lifting  up  the  tired  and  sor- 
rowful face — this  was  David's  threefold  concep- 
tion of  his  relation  with  God.  All  around  men 
were  filled  with  wrath  at  him.  He  heard  their 
harsh  voices,  and  what  they  said.  Nevertheless 
he  comforted,  and  stayed  his  heart  with  the 
words,  But  Thou,  O  Lord.  Ah,  what  an  in- 
stant change  they  make ! 

We  kneel,  and  all  around  us  seems  to  lower ; 
We  rise,  and  all,  the  distant  and  the  near, 
Stands  forth  in  sunny  outline,  brave  and  clear ; 

We  kneel,  how  weak — we  rise,  how  full  of  power ! 

Ah,  these  Buts !  What  a  difference  they 
make  in  our  lives.  There  is  always  the  hedge 
of  God's  care,  always  an  illimitable  reserve  of 
power  and  help  within  our  reach,  of  which  we 
may  avail  ourselves ;  and  we  are  so  sure  of  it, 
that  we  lay  ourselves  down  in  peace  to  sleep, 
though  the  foe  in  thousands  encamps  around. 
3 


Know  that  the  Lord  hath  set  apart  hhn  that  is 
godly  for  Himself  .  Psa.  iv.  j. 

THE  Lord  sets  apart  for  His  own  enjoyme^it. 

"A  garden  enclosed  is  my  sister."      Out  of 

the  wild  prairie  Christ  encloses  favored  bits  of 
land,  that  they  may  become  fair  gardens  in  which 
to  walk.  God  must  have  spirits  with  which  He 
can  commune ;  and  therefore  He  shuts  selected 
ones  away  in  sick  chambers,  in  loneliness,  and  in 
prisons,  that  there  may  be  nothing  to  divert  them 
from  the  holy  intercourse  with  Himself  which  is 
His  refreshment  and  delight. 

The  Lord  sets  apart  for  fellowship  in  interces- 
sory prayer. — He  leads  three  of  the  Apostles  into 
the  shadows  of  Gethsemane,  that  they  may  add 
their  intercessions  with  His.  In  each  church 
there  is  a  favored  band  to  whom  He  tells  His 
secret  anxiety  for  other  souls,  and  whom  He 
leads  out  in  prayer  on  the  behalf  of  them  and  of 
the  world. 

The  Lord  sets  apart  for  service. — Those  that 
separate  themselves  from  evil  become  vessels  unto 
honor,  sanctified  and  meet  for  the  Master's  use. 
Do  not  be  surprised  if  you  are  withdrawn  from  the 
madding  crowd,  from  the  ambitions  and  interests 
of  earlier  years ;  it  is  the  Lord's  way  of  engaging 
you  for  special  service. 

We  can  never  forget  how  the  Holy  Ghost  bade 
the  early  Church  separate  Barnabas  and  Saul  to 
their  appointed  ministry.  They  were  separated 
unto  the  Holy  Ghost.  A  similar  separation  may 
become  ours.  Let  us  live  in  the  world  as  those 
who  are  set  apart  for  God,  like  the  Temple  ves- 
sels that  might  not  be  put,  as  Belshazzar  at- 
tempted to  put  them,  to  idolatrous  and  lascivious 
purposes.  Oh  to  know  what  God  means  when 
He  puts  His  reserve  on  the  soul,  and  says,  This 
is  my  rest  forever,  here  will  I  dwell ! 
4 


Jn  the  morning  will  I  order  my  prayer  nnto  Thee. 

Psa.  V.  J  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  very  important  to  consider  the  order  of 
our  petitions.  No  man  would  approach  an 
earthly  sovereign  without  taking  time  to  consider 
how  best  to  present  his  requests.  He  would  con- 
sider the  pleas  on  which  to  rely,  the  arguments 
to  present,  and  the  method  in  which  he  would  be 
most  likely  to  carry  his  case.  Upon  entering  the 
presence  of  the  great  King,  our  Father,  would  it 
not  well  repay  us  to  stay  on  the  threshold  for  a 
moment  to  ask  what  petitions  we  are  about  to 
proffer,  the  order  in  which  we  should  arrange 
them,  and  the  reasons  we  should  adduce? 

It  is  manifestly  a  mistake  to  pray  at  haphazard. 
There  is  too  much  random  praying  with  us  all. 
We  do  not  return  again  and  again  to  the  same 
petition,  pressing  it  home  with  all  humility  and 
reverence,  and  arguing  the  case,  as  Abraham  did 
his  for  the  cities  of  the  plain. 

Study  the  order  of  the  Lord's  prayer — the 
adoration  and  prostration  of  soul  before  God  prior 
to  supplication  for  definite  gifts ;  the  acquiescence 
in  the  Divine  will  before  the  prayer  for  daily 
bread ;  the  entreaty  for  forgiveness  before  there 
can  be  a  thought  of  deliverance  from  evil.  Or 
consider  the  order  of  the  High  Priest's  interces- 
sion for  His  own  in  John  xvii.  before  He  pours 
out  His  soul  in  prayer  for  the  world.  Lay  the 
wood  'Mn  order."  Enter  the  temple  of  prayer 
through  successive  courts — Confession,  Absolu- 
tion, Ascriptions  of  Praise,  the  Te  Deum,  the 
broken  sentences,  the  outburst  of  intercession,  as 
suggested  by  the  Church  of  England  liturgy.  At 
the  same  time,  do  not  forget  to  be  perfectly 
natural.  Whilst  the  soul  ascends  the  temple  by 
regular  steps,  let  there  be  the  glad  conviction  of 
the  tender  love  of  the  waiting  Father. 
5 


Atui  Thou,  O  Lardy  how  long? 

Psa.  vi.j  (R.  v.). 

YOU  have  been  long  in  coming,  love  says.  So 
miserly  are  we  of  the  minutes,  so  leaden-paced  is 
the  beat  of  the  pendulum,  when  our  heart  stands 
on  the  tiptoe  of  expectation.  Moments  lengthen 
to  hours  when  we  suffer  and  await  deliverance, 
just  as  hours  contract  to  moments  when  the  heart 
is  young  and  gay. 

How  ioftg,  Lord,  ere  the  trial  cease  ? — When 
we  are  entering  into  the  furnace,  we  like  to  make 
bargains  with  God  that  it  shall  not  last  beyond  a 
certain  hour ;  but  He  never  tells  us,  lest  patience 
might  miss  her  perfect  work.  He  says  simply,  It 
is  enough  to  suffer  one  moment  at  a  time. 

How  long,  Lord,  ere  deliverance  arrive? — 
Long  ago  we  sent  for  reinforcements;  and  since 
then  the  battle  has  been  waxing  more  fierce.  We 
have  looked  eagerly  to  the  horizon  to  see  the  re- 
lieving column,  clear-cut  on  the  sky  line;  but  in 
vain.  We  think  we  can  hold  out  no  more.  We 
have  strained  at  the  oar  to  the  last  degree  of 
strength,  and  if  some  deliverance  does  not  come 
to  us,  the  fourth  watch  of  night  will  see  us  drift- 
ing helplessly  to  destruction.  "  Where  is  thy 
God?"  the  enemy  cries;  and  we  are  tempted  to 
think  ourselves  forsaken  and  forgotten. 

How  long,  Lord,  ere  the  Advent  break  ? — He 
said  that  He  would  come  quickly — but  the  weary 
centuries  pass ;  and,  strain  our  ears  as  we  may, 
we  cannot  detect  His  princely  footfall  along  the 
corridor  of  time. 

Cease,  fond  heart,  thy  complaining.  Delay  is 
not  denial.  He  counts  a  thousand  years  as  a 
day.  He  is  coming  on  the  wings  of  every  wind ; 
already  He  is  nigh,  even  at  the  doors.  Never  a 
moment  too  early — but  not  a  moment  too  late. 
6 


Judge  me,  O  Lord,  according  to  my  righteous- 
ness ^  and  accordittg  to  mine  integrity.      Fsa.  vii.  8. 

SPECIFIC  charges  were  being  made  against 
David,  of  which  he  knew  himself  to  be  absolutely 
innocent.  He  would  not  have  dared  to  chal- 
lenge God  thus,  if  the  whole  of  his  life  were 
passing  under  review.  In  that  case  there  would 
have  been  no  hesitation  in  confessing  that,  taken 
generally,  he  was  a  sinful  man.  Similarly,  God's 
children  are  often  accused  of  wrongs  of  which 
they  are  absolutely  innocent.  In  such  case  they 
have  a  right  to  declare  their  innocence  before 
their  fellows;  then  if  this  avail  not  to  procure 
their  acquittal,  they  must  turn  to  God,  and  ask 
Him  to  interpose. 

But  what  a  question  this  suggests  !  Are  you 
able,  child  of  God,  to  declare  that,  as  far  as  you 
have  the  light,  you  are  living  righteously,  soberly, 
godly,  in  this  present  world  ?  Is  your  life  right- 
wise — that  is,  four-square  with  the  demands  of 
God's  law,  able  to  bear  the  test  of  His  line  and 
plummet?  Can  you  assert  your  integrity?  In- 
tegrity is  derived  from  the  Latin  integer,  a  whole, 
a  number  unbroken  by  fractions.  Are  you  whole- 
hearted ?  or,  to  use  the  grand  old  word,  is  your 
heart  perfect  before  God  ?  If  it  be,  it  matters 
very  little  what  men  shall  say  of  your  character. 
If  a  man  suffer  as  a  Christian,  let  him  not  be 
ashamed,  but  glorify  God  on  this  behalf.  What 
is  said  is  aimed  rather  at  the  Master  than  the 
servant.  God  becomes  responsible  for  your 
vindication.  He  will  arise  and  show  Himself 
strong,  putting  to  silence  the  enemy  and  avenger. 
Trust  your  reputation  with  God,  and,  in  the 
meanwhile,  go  on  doing  His  will.  There  is  no 
harm  in  calmly  and  temperately  attesting  your  in- 
nocence ;  but  if  this  avails  not  to  stay  the  storm, 
bend  before  it.  Do  not  appeal  to  law.  God 
will  vindicate  you. 

7 


Thou  madest  him  io  have  dominion. 

Psa.  via.  6, 

YES,  broken,  beaten,  fallen,  O  child  of  man, 
thou  wast  made  to  have  dominion.  Not  only 
over  cattle,  birds,  and  fish,  but  over  thine  own 
wonderful  nature.  Within  thee  there  is  a  realm 
as  full  of  multitudinous  life  as  Paradise  was  when 
God  brought  the  animals  to  Adam  that  he  might 
name  them  ;  and  over  all  this  thou  wast  meant  to 
rule.  Yea,  thou  wert  made  to  have  dominion 
also  over  the  wicked  spirits  that  are  thy  sworn 
foes.  A  royal,  regnant,  victorious  life  was  that 
which  thy  Creator  inbreathed.  There  is  no 
reason,  on  God's  side,  or  in  thy  original  consti- 
tution, why  thou  shouldst  not  exercise  thy  domin- 
ion. Remember,  thou  wast  made  to  have  do- 
minion. 

We  see  not  yet  all  things  put  under  us.  There 
is  open  revolt  and  anarchy  within.  The  will  re- 
sembles the  ancient  kings  whose  sway  was  limited 
by  proud  and  strong  barons.  The  animal  crea- 
tion largely  defies  us,  and  is  in  this  the  symbol 
of  our  loss  of  authority  everywhere.  But  look 
away  to  Jesus.  This  old  psalm  is  fulfilled  in 
Him.  His  glorious  nature  rose,  by  its  inherent 
glory,  to  the  right  hand  of  power.  All  authority 
is  His  in  heaven  and  on  earth.  And  in  propor- 
tion as  we  identify  ourselves  with  Him,  and  re- 
ceive His  life,  we  regain  our  lost  dominion.  He 
makes  us  kings  and  priests  unto  God.  We  share 
a  life  which  neither  death  nor  the  devil  can 
master. 

What  shall  we  say  of  the  excellency  of  His 
name,  who  is  not  only  our  Creator,  but  our  Re- 
deemer, and  who  at  such  great  cost  to  Himself 
has  replaced  on  our  brows  the  crown  that  sin  tore 
from  them?  He  made  us  to  have  dominion  by 
the  word  of  creation.  He  made  us  kings  unto 
God  by  His  blood.  His  name  shall,  therefore,  be 
honored  through  all  the  earth. 
8 


They  that  know  Thy  Name  will  put  their  trust  in 
Thee.  Psa.  ix.  lo. 

WE  do  not  trust,  because  we  do  not  know.  If 
we  were  once  to  know  God,  it  would  seem  as 
absurd  to  doubt  Him  as  to  fear  that  we  should  fly- 
off  at  a  tangent  from  the  surface  of  the  earth. 
Men  complain  of  their  little  faith:  the  remedy 
is  in  their  own  hands ;  let  them  set  themselves  to 
know  God.  We  may  know  about  God,  and  yet 
not  know  Him.  We  may  hear  what  others  say 
about  Him,  but  have  no  direct  and  personal  ac- 
quaintance. **  That  I  may  know  Him,"  said  the 
Apostle. 

The  materials  for  the  knowledge  of  God  are  all 
around  thee;  make  use  of  them.  Think  of  the 
promises  by  which  God  has  bound  Himself  to 
succor  those  that  come  to  Him ;  of  the  record  of 
His  gracious  interpositions  for  His  saints ;  of  the 
necessity  that  He  should  maintain  His  character 
and  reputation  in  the  face  of  the  universe. 

Above  all,  argue,  as  Jesus  bade,  from  your 
own  heart.  Would  you  give  stones  to  hungry 
babes,  and  scorpions  into  childish  hands?  Would 
you  desert  a  forlorn  and  hunted  soul  that 
trusted?  Would  you  insist  on  a  certain  measure 
of  agony  before  stepping  in  to  deliver?  Would 
you  take  delight  in  inflicting  needless  anguish? 
And  will  God  ?  Trust  may  be  read  as  the  super- 
lative of  true.  To  trust  is  to  count  God  true^ 
though  circumstances  belie  ;  to  count  Him  truer 
than  the  melancholy  forebodings  of  our  hearts; 
to  count  Him  our  truest  and  tenderest  Friend. 
'^Yet  let  God  be  true,  though  every  man  is 
proved  to  be  a  liar." 

But   for  all  this,  you  must  make  time.     You 
cannot   know   a   friend    in    hurried    interviews, 
much  less  God.     So  you  must  steep  yourself  in 
deep,  long  thoughts  of  His  nearness  and  love. 
9 


Wiy  sta7idest  Thou  afar  off,  O  Lord? 

Psa.  X.  7. 

MEN  in  sorrow  do  not  always  speak  wisely ; 
and  they  ask  many  questions  which  God  does 
not  answer.  Here  is  one.  God  does  not  stand 
afar  off  and  hide  Himself  in  times  of  trouble.  As 
the  Psalmist  sings,  in  a  happier  mood,  **  He  is  a 
very  present  help  in  time  of  trouble."  But  He 
permits  trouble  to  pursue  us,  as  though  He  were 
indifferent  to  its  overwhelming  pressure;  that  we 
may  be  brought  to  an  end  of  ourselves,  and  led 
to  discover  the  treasures  of  darkness,  the  un- 
measurable  gains  of  tribulation.  No  cross,  no 
crown.     No  pain,  no  gain. 

We  may  be  sure  that  He  who  permits  the  suf- 
fering is  with  us  in  it.  The  form  of  the  Fourth 
may  be  hard  to  distinguish,  but  it  is  there  in  the 
fire.  It  may  be  that  we  shall  only  see  Him  when 
the  trial  is  passing  ;  but  we  must  dare  to  believe 
that  He  never  leaves  the  crucible.  Our  eyes  are 
holden ;  and  we  cannot  behold  Him  whom  our 
soul  loveth.  It  is  dark — the  bandages  blind  us 
so  that  we  cannot  see  the  form  of  our  High 
Priest.  But  He  is  there,  deeply  touched.  Let 
us  not  rely  on  feeling,  but  on  faith  in  His  un- 
swerving fidelity ;  and  though  we  see  Him  not, 
let  us  talk  to  Him  in  whispers  as  though  we 
could  detect  Him. 

«  I  take  the  pain,  Lord  Jesus,  from  Thine  own  hand, 
The  strength  to  bear  it  bravely,  Thou  wilt  command." 

Directly  we  begin  to  speak  to  Jesus,  as  being 
literally  present,  though  His  presence  is  veiled, 
there  comes  an  answering  voice  which  shows  that 
He  is  in  the  shadow,  keeping  watch  upon  His 
own.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  the  darkness.  Behind 
the  cloud,  the  sun  is  shining.  Little  child,  your 
Father  is  as  near  when  you  journey  through  the 
dark  tunnel  as  when  under  the  open  heaven  !  Go 
nearer,  and  you  will  feel  Him  ! 
10 


The  Lord  trie th  the  righteous. 

Psa.  xi.  J. 
DO  not  be  surprised  if  you  are  passing  through 
trials.  The  righteous  Lord  is  exercising  you 
toward  righteousness,  that  your  face  may  ever 
behold  His  in  unswerving  communion.  As  the 
trainer  of  a  young  athlete  will  place  him,  now  in 
one  position,  and  again  in  another,  to  call  cer- 
tain muscles  into  play,  to  strengthen  them  by 
use,  and  to  make  the  whole  organization  supple 
and  subservient  to  the  impulses  of  the  soul,  so 
God  tries  us — to  call  into  operation,  and  test  by 
use,  each  faculty  of  our  being. 

Trials  make  the  promise  sweet, 
Trials  give  new  life  to  prayer; 

Trials  bring  us  to  His  feet, 

Lay  us  low,_^and  keep  us  there. 

There  is  a  great  difference  between  the  tempt- 
ings  of  Satan  and  the  tryings  of  the  Lord.  The 
former  are  intended  to  make  us  fall ;  the  great 
adversary  takes  pleasure  in  showing  how  weak 
and  sinful  we  are,  and  in  casting  us  down  to  de- 
struction. The  latter,  that  we  may  be  led  out 
toward  faith,  patience,  courage,  meekness,  and 
other  worldliness.  ''Tribulation  worketh  pa- 
tience, and  patience  experience,  and  experience 
hope."  Whatever  spiritual  power  is  latent  within 
us,  we  may  be  unaware  of  its  value  or  helpfulness 
till  it  is  called  into  exercise  by  trial.  But  when 
once  it  has  been  summoned  into  manifestation,  it 
becomes  the  invaluable  possession  of  all  after  time. 

There  is  this  consolation  in  trial,  that  at  least 
we  are  not  reprobates.  The  Lord  trieth  the 
righteojis.  The  lapidary  does  not  waste  his  time 
in  cutting  common  pebbles.  If  we  endure  chas- 
tisement, we  are  clearly  not  bastards,  but  sons. 
Our  Father  loves  us  too  much  to  let  us  miss  the 
rich  fruit  that  is  \o  reward  us  when  all  the  prun- 
ing is  over. 

11 


The  words  of  the  Lord  are  pure  words ^  as  silver 
tried  in  a  furnace  of  earth.  Psa.  xii.  6. 

WHAT  a  contrast  is  presented  in  this  Psalm 
between  God's  words  and  man's  !  **  They  speak 
vanity,  with  flattering  lip  and  double  heart." 
God  never  flatters ;  His  words  are  absolutely  pure 
because  they  have  passed  through  the  furnace  of 
His  holiness,  but  they  are  therefore  absolutely 
reliable  and  trustworthy. 

As  silver  enriches  its  owner,  so  does  the  Word 
of  God  enrich  its  lovers.  Nothing  so  strengthens 
the  intellect,  clears  the  judgment,  enlarges  the 
views,  purifies  the  taste,  quickens  the  imagination, 
and  educates  the  whole  man.  The  humblest  day- 
laborer  who  imbibes  the  Bible  becomes  rich  in 
thought  and  speech,  and  able  to  dispense  his 
riches  to  others. 

As  silver  is  beautiful  to  the  eye,  so  fair  is  the 
Word  of  God.  After  a  boy  born  blind  had  been 
suddenly  possessed  of  sight  through  an  operation 
by  a  skillful  oculist,  his  mother  led  him  out-of- 
doors,  took  off  the  bandages,  and  gave  him  his 
first  view  of  sunshine,  sky,  and  flowers.  ''Oh, 
mother,"  he  cried,  ''why  did  you  never  tell  me 
it  was  so  beautiful?"  With  starting  tears,  she 
said,  "I  tried  to  tell  you,  my  dear,  but  you 
could  not  understand  me."  We  need  opened 
eyes,  and  then  the  Bible  is  more  to  be  desired 
than  fine  gold. 

As  silver  is  pure,  so  is  the  Word  of  God ;  and 
it  purifies.  It  has  been  the  main  purifying  agent 
of  the  world.  Though  it  deals  with  the  corrup- 
tions of  the  human  heart,  it  does  so  in  such  a 
delicate  and  holy  manner  as  to  excite  within  us 
something  of  the  abhorrence  of  the  Holy  God. 
Like  the  passage  of  water  through  a  sieve,  it 
cleanses  the  heart  and  life. 
12 


/  will  sing  unto  the  Lord,  because  He  hath  dealt 
bountifully  with  me.  Psa.  xiU.  6. 

HERE  is  the  man  who  had  sorrow  in  his  heart 
all  the  day  breaking  into  song  !  We  do  not  find 
that  his  troubles  were  any  less.  The  enemy  was 
still  exalted  over  him,  and  boasted  of  having  pre- 
vailed ;  it  seemed  indeed  as  though  he  must  soon 
sleep  the  sleep  of  death.  But  he  never  let  go  his 
trust.  Whatever  were  his  outward  discomforts  and 
trials,  he  clung  to  his  God  and  waited  patiently 
for  Him ;  with  the  result  that  out  of  his  stormy 
griefs  he  built  a  Bethel,  and  in  the  midst  of  his 
anguish  broke  out  into  song. 

When  we  are  sitting  under  the  shadow  of 
severe  trial,  God  can  wrap  us  about  with  the 
garment  of  praise,  and  fill  our  mouths  with  sing- 
ing. Although  the  fig-tree  does  not  blossom, 
and  there  is  no  fruit  in  the  vines,  yet  the  soul 
may  rejoice  in  the  Lord,  and  joy  in  the  God  of 
salvation.  You  cannot  starve  a  man  who  is  feed- 
ing on  God's  promises;  and  you  cannot  make 
that  man  or  woman  wretched  who  has  a  clean 
conscience,  the  smile  of  God,  and  the  love  of 
Jesus  in  the  soul. 

When  brave  old  Thomas  Halyburton  lost  his 
much-loved  son,  he  made  this  record:  **This 
day  has  been  a  day  to  be  remembered.  O  my 
soul,  never  forget  what  this  day  I  reached.  My 
Soul  had  smiles  that  almost  wasted  nature.  Oh, 
what  a  sweet  day  !  About  half-an-hour  after  the 
Sabbath,  my  child,  after  a  sharp  conflict,  slept 
pleasantly  in  Jesus,  to  whom  pleasantly  he  was 
so  often  given.  .  .  .  Jesus  came  to  me  in  the 
third  watch  of  the  night,  walking  upon  the 
waters.  ...  He  stilled  the  tempest  in  my 
soul,  and  lo  !  there  was  a  great  calm."  When 
God  is  bereaving  us  of  all  else,  He  may  so  fill  us 
with  Himself  tliat  we  shall  magnify  His  bounti- 
fulness. 

13 


When  the  Lord  bringetli  back  the  captivity  of  His 
people.  Psa.  xiv.  7. 

IT  is  good  to  have  an  eye  on  the  future, 
even  though  we  get  sometimes  a  little  weary 
of  waiting,  and  impatient  of  delay.  Here  a 
captive  soul  transports  itself  to  the  hours  when 
its  captivity  shall  be  ended  ;  and  although  it  can- 
not altogether  suppress  the  **OhI"  of  longing 
desire,  it  dilates  with  ecstasy,  as  it  anticipates 
the  outburst  of  joy  that  shall  hail  the  Divine  de- 
liverance. 

Let  us  look  on  and  up.  Bunyan  tells  us  that 
the  heart  of  the  Pilgrim  ''waxed  warm  about 
the  place  whither  he  was  going."  A  real  lover 
of  Christ,  who  knows  something  of  the  law  of 
sin  in  his  members,  and  of  the  dull  weight  of 
this  mortal  tabernacle,  is  apt  to  have,  at  times, 
eager  desires  for  His  home  and  His  glorious 
inheritance.  Paul  was  one  of  the  most  eager  of 
workers,  but  he  was  ever  dwelling  on  the  blessed 
hope. 

"When,"  exclaimed  Baxter,  "when,  O  my 
soul,  hast  thou  most  forgot  thy  wintry  sorrows? 
Is  it  not  when  thou  hast  got  above,  closest  to 
Jesus  Christ,  and  hast  conversed  with  Him,  and 
viewed  the  mansions  of  glory,  and  filled  thyself 
with  sweet  foretastes,  and  talked  with  the  in- 
habitants of  the  higher  world?  "  Such  devout 
anticipations  do  not  slacken  our  work  down  here 
during  this  little  while.  It  is  said  of  Samuel 
Rutherford  that  he  was  always  studying,  always 
preaching,  and  always  visiting  the  sick;  but  it 
was  he  who  exclaimed,  "Oh,  time,  run  fast! 
Oh,  fair  day,  when  wilt  thou  dawn?  Oh, 
shadows,  flee  away  !  Oh,  well-beloved  Bride- 
groom, be  Thou  to  me  like  the  roe  or  the  young 
hart  on  the  mountains  !  " 

"  The  best  is  yet  to  be — 
The  last,  for  which  the  fust  was  made." 

14 


Lord,  who  shall  sojourn  iii  Thy  tabernacle  ?  who 
shall  dwell  in  Thy  holy  hill?    Fsa.  xv.  i  {marg.). 

THIS  holy  soul  was  not  content  to  stand  in  the 
outer  court  without  the  sacred  tent ;  he  coveted 
to  enter  where  the  High  Priest  entered,  and  to 
live  there.  It  was  impossible  then ;  the  way  into 
the  Holiest  was  not  made  manifest.  No  ordinary 
worshipper  might  pass  the  Vail,  and  the  high 
priest  who  passed  it  once  a  year  remained  but  a 
few  moments. 

How  marvellously  different  our  experience 
may  be  !  We  have  boldness  to  enter  into  the 
holy  place,  and  remain  there,  by  the  blood  of 
Jesus  ;  and,  by  the  enablings  of  His  Priesthood, 
we  may  spend  our  entire  lives  under  the  con- 
sciousness of  the  presence  and  favor  of  God.  It 
is  much  like  the  servants  of  Solomon,  to  stand 
before  our  King,  and  to  hear  Him  speaking,  bid- 
ding us  either  to  perform  His  errands,  or  fold  the 
wings  of  activity  in  wrapt  communion. 

This  is  not  your  experience  ?  Then  look  care- 
fully through  the  conditions  which  this  Psalm 
enumerates.  Perhaps  you  are  not  transparently 
truthful;  or  your  tongue  is  not  carefully  con- 
trolled ;  or  you  are  not  perfectly  honorable  in 
your  business  dealings  ;  or  you  do  not  know  the 
power  of  the  blood  of  Christ,  as  it  cleanses  from 
dead  works  to  serve  the  living  God. 

It  is  worth  any  sacrifice  to  maintain  this  habit 
of  indwelling  the  Most  Holy  Place.  Ask  that  it 
may  become  your  second  nature.  The  Lord 
Jesus  will  secure  this,  since  He  was  appointed  for 
us  in  things  that  pertain  to  God.  Whenever  any- 
thing in  the  inner  life  seems  faulty  and  deficient, 
we  may  turn  with  unabated  confidence  to  our 
High  Priest,  asking  Him  to  adjust  it,  to  bring 
us  into  the  presence  of  God,  and  to  keep  us 
there. 

15 


Thou  wilt  not  leave  my  soul  in  Hades. 

Fsa.  xvi.  JO. 

THIS  hymn  is  forever  sacred  because  of  its 
application  by  the  Holy  Ghost  to  our  Saviour's 
resurrection  (Acts  ii.).  It  was  as  though  our 
Lord  has  stayed  His  soul  upon  these  words  as 
He  left  this  world  and  entered  the  unseen.  The 
last  words  He  uttered  were  of  committal  to  His 
Father,  and  then  He  commenced  to  traverse  the 
land  of  shadow.  "  He  that  ascended  is  He  that 
first  descended  into  the  lower  parts  of  the  earth." 
The  Apostle  Peter  says  that  He  went  to  visit  the 
spirits  in  prison.  Whither  He  went  is  not  ma- 
terial— it  is  enough  for  our  purpose  that  He  sang, 
as  He  went,  this  hymn  of  immortal  hope.  Sure 
that  He  was  the  Father's  beloved,  He  knew  that 
He  would  not  be  left  in  Hades,  nor  suffered  to 
see  corruption.  He  knew  that  there  was  a  path 
of  life  somewhere,  which  God  would  show. 

Whenever  you  are  stepping  down  into  the 
dark,  unable  to  see  a  hand's-breadth  before  you, 
and  just  letting  the  foot  fall  from  step  to  step — it 
may  be  because  of  some  act  of  obedience  to  con- 
science, or  because  you  are  called  to  enter  the 
unknown  and  untried,  or  even  death  itself — cheer 
your  heart  with  this  holy  Psalm.  God  will  never 
desert  the  soul  that  absolutely  honors  and  obeys 
Him.  His  way  leads  to  the  light  through  the 
dark,  to  the  deathless  through  death,  to  the 
abounding  fruit-bearing  through  desertion  and 
loneliness.  How  lonely  the  vine-stock  is  through 
the  winter  !     Follow  Him,  He  will  show. 

"She  is  sinking  very  fast,"  whispered  an  at- 
tendant in  the  dying  chamber  of  a  godly 
woman.  "No,  no,"  was  the  quick  response  of 
the  departing  saint,  who  had  overheard  the 
words:  "no;  I  am  not  sinking;  I  am  in  the 
arms  of  my  Saviour." 

16 


I  shall  behold  Thy  face  in  righteousness.    I  shall 
be  satisfied  zvhen  I  aivake,  Psa.  xvii.  jj. 

TO  a  good  man,  then,  this  is  the  world  of 
dream  and  shadow,  and  death  is  the  awakening. 
We  are  like  men  asleep  in  some  chamber  that 
looks  toward  the  eastern  sky.  Outside  is  the  day 
with  its  revealing  beams,  but  our  heavy  eyes  are 
closed  to  it  all.  '*  Here  and\\\trt,  some  lighter 
sleeper  with  thinner  eyelids  or  face  turned  to  the 
sun  is  half  conscious  of  a  vague  brightness  and 
feels  the  light,  though  he  sees  not  the  wealth  of 
color  it  reveals.  Such  souls  are  our  saints  and 
prophets;  but  most  of  us  sleep  on  unconscious." 
But  the  moment  is  at  hand  when  we  shall  awake 
and  start  up  and  declare  ourselves  fools  for  hav- 
ing counted  dreams  as  realities,  whilst  we  were 
oblivious  to  the  eternal  realities. 

When  we  awake  we  shall  behold  the  face  of 
God.  Likeness  is  properly  "form,"  and  is  the 
same  word  employed  in  reference  to  Moses,  who 
saw  the  similitude  of  the  Lord.  We  shall  see 
Him  as  He  is.  There  will  be  an  outward  reve- 
lation and  manifestation  of  His  lovely  and  holy 
character,  and  it  will  satisfy  us  completely. 
''The  glory  of  God  in  the  face  of  Jesus  Christ." 
And  we  shall  be  satisfied.  The  mind  will  be 
satisfied  with  His  truth,  the  heart  with  His  love, 
the  will  with  His  authority.  We  shall  need 
nothing  else.  Heaven  itself,  with  its  outspread 
mystery  of  beauty,  will  not  divert  our  gaze  from 
God,  nor  contribute  to  our  satisfaction.  To 
know  God,  to  stand  before  Him,  to  realize  that 
we  are  accepted  in  the  righteousness  of  the  Well- 
beloved — this  will  be  enough  forevermore. 

"  This  life's  a  dream,  an  empty  show ; 
But  the  bright  world  to  which  I  go 
Hath  joys  substantial  and  sincere  : 
When  shall  I  wake,  and  find  me  there  ?  " 

17 


Thy  gentleness  hath  made  me  great. 

Psa.  xviii.  ^^. 

THE  Nasmyth  hammer  which  can  pulverize 
blocks  of  tough  metal,  will  break  the  shell  of  a 
nut  without  hurting  the  kernel.  In  this  it  re- 
sembles this  Psalm,  in  the  earlier  part  of  which 
there  is  one  of  the  grandest  descriptions  that 
words  can  give  of  God's  mighty  interposition  on 
behalf  of  His  threatened  child.  But  here  we  are 
told  that  it  is  the  Divine  gentleness  which  has 
made  him  great.  It  is  as  though  Go&^s  power 
were  exerted  against  our  foes,  whilst  our  educa- 
tion is  undertaken  by  His  love. 

Review  your  life.  See  the  perils  from  which 
you  have  been  rescued ;  the  process  of  your  ed- 
ucation ;  the  slow  degrees  by  which  you  have 
climbed  to  any  eminence  of  Christian  character ; 
the  method  by  which  you  have  attained  the 
power  of  influencing  others :  is  it  not  all  attrib- 
utable to  the  gentleness  of  the  Good  Shepherd  ? 
Not  by  sudden  cataclysms  and  catastrophes ;  not 
by  the  earthquake,  the  fire,  or  the  hurricane ;  not 
even  by  the  stringent  requirements  of  law ;  but 
by  a  succession  of  tenderest,  gentlest  movements 
of  the  Divine  Spirit.  He  has  remonstrated  in 
whispered  accents ;  He  has  seemed  grieved  and 
sad  ;  He  has  turned  and  looked  ;  He  has  sent  a 
message  by  a  woman's  lips ;  He  has  put  a  little 
child  into  your  life  to  lead  you ;  He  has  poured 
on  you  one  continual  stream  of  sunshine.  Now, 
it  has  been  the  distilling  of  dew;  and  again, 
soft  showers  on  the  mown  grass:  and  through 
all,  the  purpose  has  run  of  eliminating  the  self- 
life,  and  leading  you  to  the  full  stature  of  the 
perfect  man.  The  strongest  soul  I  ever  knew, 
one  who  seemed  to  have  been  fashioned  by 
God's  mightiest  strokes,  was  wont,  in  life's  even- 
tide, to  attribute  all  to  the  effect  of  God's  gentle- 
ness. 

18 


Cleafise  Thou  me  from  scn-et  faults. 

Psa.  xix.  12. 

IT  is  not  likely  that  we  shall  be  kept  from  the 
great  transgression  unless  we  are  preserved  from 
presumptuous  sins ;  and  these  in  turn  will  befall 
us  unless  we  have  been  cleansed  from  hidden 
faults.  Just  as  the  germ  of  disease  taken  into 
the  system  will  presently  reveal  itself  in  an  out- 
burst of  malignant  fever,  so  hidden  faults  flower 
out  into  presumptuous  sins,  and  these  into  great 
transgression.  "Then  lust,  when  it  hath  con- 
ceived, beareth  sin  ;  and  the  sin,  when  it  isfull- 
grown  bringeth  forth  death." 

First,  we  need  forgiveness  for  secret  sins.  The 
Jewish  law  made  large  provision  for  sins  of  igno- 
rance. A  man  might  unawares  walk  across  a 
grave,  or  touch  some  article  of  furniture  which 
was  ceremonially  unclean,  and  so  become  defiled. 
Even  though  unconscious  of  actual  transgression, 
he  would  find  his  communion  with  God  broken. 
Thus,  after  the  holiest  day  we  have  ever  spent 
we  need  to  ask  for  cleansing  in  the  precious 
blood,  for  sins  which  God  has  discerned,  but 
which  in  the  twilight  of  our  ignorance,  and  be- 
cause we  compared  ourselves  with  those  be- 
neath us  in  spiritual  attainment,  have  escaped 
notice. 

Next,  we  need  deliverance  from  the  love  and 
power  of  sin,  in  lower  depths  than  we  have  ever 
realized.  We  desire  to  pass  muster  at  the  bar, 
not  only  of  our  neighbors  and  ourselves,  but  of 
God.  We  desire  that  the  Spirit  should  antago- 
nize the  flesh  in  depths  below  the  reach  of  the 
plumb-line  of  our  consciousness.  We  desire  the 
inner  purity  of  heart.  But  this  is  peculiarly 
God's  prerogative.  It  is  His  work  to  cleanse 
the  thoughts  of  our  hearts  by  the  inspiration  of 
His  Holy  Spirit.  *'  Cleanse  Thou  me.'' 
19 


Kow  knoiv  I  that  the  Lord  saveth  His  Anointed. 

Fsa.  XX.  6. 

THIS  was  no  doubt  true  of  David  as  the 
anointed  king  of  Israel,  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
for  whom  the  Father  hath  promised  that  He  will 
subdue  all  things  under  Him;  but  it  is  also  true 
of  every  saint  who  has  been  anointed  with  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Christian  means  a?i  anointed  one. 
Alas,  that  in  so  many  cases  the  name  is  a  mis- 
nomer! And  men  cannot  claim  the  saving 
strength  of  God's  right  hand  because  they  have 
not  bent  head  and  heart  beneath  the  chrism  of 
the  Holy  Spirit.  How  is  it  with  thee?  Art 
thou  included  in  what  Paul  said,  "He  that 
anointeth  us  is  God  "  ;  and  in  what  John  said, 
*'The  anointing  which  has  once  been  received, 
abideth  "  ?  If  so,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
Jehovah  will  ever  save  thee  with  a  present-tense 
salvation.  He  saveth  those  whom  He  anointeth 
with  the  saving  strength  of  His  right  hand. 

Dost  thou  doubt  this?  Sayest  thou  that  the 
annoyances  and  solicitations,  the  pitfalls  and 
snares,  the  antagonisms  and  temptations  of  thy 
life,  are  so  great  as  to  offer  an  insuperable  ob- 
stacle to  thy  entire  deliverance  from  fret,  irrita- 
tion, and  failure?  Then  turn  to  the  marvellous 
phrase  that  follows,  and  tell  me,  if  thou  canst, 
the  meaning  of  the  saving  strength  of  God's  right 
hand.  Is  not  God's  right  hand  strong  enough? 
And  notice  that  its  strength  is  pledged  not  to  de- 
stroy, but  to  save.  All  the  strength  of  God's 
right  hand  goes  forth  to  save  unto  the  uttermost. 
Look  away  from  adversary  and  temptation,  and 
keep  murmuring  to  thyself,  "  He  shall  save  me 
to-day,  and  always,  with  the  saving  strength  of 
His  right  hand."  And  is  not  the  right  hand  of 
the  Most  High  the  place  where  Jesus  sits?  Is 
not  the  right  hand  of  God  moved  by  the  love 
that  died  on  Calvary  ?  **  He  laid  His  right  hand 
upon  me,  saying,  Fear  not." 
20 


Thou  prevent  est  him  with  the  blessings  of  good- 
ness, Psa.  xxi.  3. 

GOD  is  always  beforehand  with  us.  The  word 
*'  prevent  "  is  not  as  familiar  to  our  modern  Eng- 
lish as  it  was  when  the  Bible  was  translated. 
Then  it  meant  "that  which  comes  or  goes  be- 
fore." And  the  idea  is  that  God  goes  before  us, 
preparing  our  way,  and  laying  up  supplies  of 
grace  to  anticipate  our  need.  This  is  the  mean- 
ing of  the  prayer:  "  Prevent  us,  O  Lord,  in  all 
our  doings." 

Go  into  the  chamber  where  the  mother  is  pre- 
paring for  the  advent  of  a  little  babe.  You  have 
no  difficulty  in  telling  what  the  wants  of  the 
child  will  be  by  all  the  articles  which  her  tender 
forethought  is  providing;  and  when  presently 
the  little  one  opens  its  eyes  in  this  strange,  new 
world,  it  finds  that  it  has  been  prevented  with 
the  blessings  of  goodness. 

For  ages  prior  to  the  appearance  of  man  on  the 
earth,  the  great  heart  of  God  was  exercised  in 
preparing  for  him.  To  please  his  ear,  Music 
tuned  her  lyre;  to  satisfy  his  eye,  the  Great 
Artist  wrought  variety  of  color  and  form ;  to 
warm  him,  seams  of  coal  were  laid  down  ;  to 
give  him  drink,  rivers  poured  from  crystal  urns 
of  snow-clad  peaks ;  and  Adam  might  have  adored 
God's  prevenient  grace.  Think,  for  instance,  of 
the  color,  the  light  and  scent  and  driving-power 
in  rock-oils  ! 

Still  more  is  this  the  case  in  the  kingdom  of 
redemption.  God  has  stored  all  the  blessings  of 
goodness  in  Jesus.  In  eternal  ages,  in  the  incar- 
nation, the  cross,  the  ascension,  He  has  prepared 
beforehand  for  every  possible  need  of  our  spirit- 
ual life.  Whenever  you  pray,  remember  that 
you  are  not  to  procure  unthought-of  help ;  but 
to  avail  yourself  of  the  blessings  of  goodness 
with  which  God  has  anticipated  your  coming. 
21 


He  hath  done  it. 

Psa.  xxii.  J I  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  the  Hebrew  equivalent  for  the  words, 
'*It  is  finished."  Surely  it  was  meet  that  the 
Psalm  of  the  Cross,  which  our  Lord  must  have 
recited  to  Himself  during  those  hours  of  anguish, 
should  close  with  this  triumphant  outburst. 

Finished,  the  cerefnonial  law. — It  had  served 
its  purpose  in  prefiguring  the  person  and  work 
of  Jesus ;  but  now  the  rending  of  the  vail  be- 
tokened the  abolition  of  the  forms  of  the  earlier 
dispensation.  The  things  which  could  be  shaken 
passed,  that  those  which  could  not  be  shaken 
might  remain. 

Finished,  the  fulfilhnent  of  prophecy. — Very- 
diverse  predictions  had  met,  and  were  closed,  as 
gates  are  when  the  king  has  passed  through. 
That  He  should  be  a  King  and  a  Sufferer ;  a 
Priest  and  a  Victim ;  a  Lion  of  the  tribe  of 
Judah,  and  a  Lamb  for  substitution. 

Finished,  the  work  which  was  given  to  Him  to 
do. — The  Messiah  was  to  be  cut  off,  not  for  Him- 
self, to  finish  transgressions,  to  make  an  end  of 
sins,  to  make  reconciliation  for  iniquity,  and  to 
bring  in  everlasting  righteousness.  And  each  of 
these  great  ends  was  realized. 

Finished,  the  work  of  atone7nent. — As  the  Sub- 
stitute and  Sin-bearer,  the  Lord  Jesus  stood  with 
the  sins  of  the  race  meeting  on  Him  ;  but  when 
He  died  He  put  them  away  by  the  sacrifice  of 
Himself.  They  were  borne  into  the  land  of 
forgetfulness,  from  which  they  can  never  be  re- 
covered. The  demand  of  Divine  justice  was 
satisfied.  Mercy  and  truth  had  met.  Righteous- 
ness and  peace  embraced.  And  this  cry  of  a 
finished  redemption  shall  be  finally  crowned  by 
a  cry  of  complete  restitution  (Rev.  xxi.  6). 
22 


Surely  goodness  and  mercy  shall  follow  7ne  all 
the  days  of  my  Hfe.  Psa.  xxiii.  6. 

We  are  well  escorted,  with  a  Shepherd  in  front 
and  these  twin  angels  behind  !  Some  one  called 
them  watch-dogs;  but  I  prefer  to  think  of  them 
as  angels.  Do  you  not  see  the  special  beauty  of 
these  fair,  strong  angel-forms  following?  We 
make  such  mistakes,  give  unnecessary  pain,  leave 
work  ill-done  and  half-done,  often  succeed  rather 
in  raising  dust  than  cleaning  the  rooms  which  we 
would  fain  sweep  !  It  is  good  to  think  that  two 
such  angels  follow  close  upon  our  track  as  we  go 
through  life,  putting  kind  constructions  on  our 
actions,  disentangling  knots,  making  good  defi- 
ciencies, and  preventing  the  consequences  of  ill- 
advised  and  inconsiderate  action  pursuing  us  to 
the  bitter  end. 

There  are  mothers  who  are  always  tidying  up 
after  their  children.  The  little  ones  have  had  a  rare 
time,  which  have  left  confusion  and  disorder; 
but  the  mother  comes,  mending  the  broken  toys, 
stitching  the  rent  garments,  making  everything 
neat  and  tidy.  As  the  ambulance  corps  goes 
over  the  battlefield ;  as  time  festoons  with  ver- 
dure ruins  and  decay ;  as  love  puts  the  most 
tender  construction  on  word  and  act — so  the  love 
of  God  follows  us. 

His  goodness  imputes  to  us  the  noble  motive, 
though  the  act  itself  has  been  a  failure;  credits 
us  with  what  was  in  our  heart ;  reckons  us  the 
full  wage,  though  we  have  only  wrought  one 
hour.  His  mercy  forgives,  obliterates  the  traces 
of  our  sins  from  His  heart,  undoes  their  ill-effect 
so  far  as  possible  toward  others,  and  treats  us  as 
if  we  had  never  transgressed.  Do  not  fear  the 
future.  God's  angels  do  not  tire.  What  has 
been  will  be,  in  all  worlds,  and  to  all  eternity. 
All  the  days,  even  those  in  which  Satan  seems  to 
have  obtained  permission  to  sift. 
23 


And  the  King  of  Glory  shall  come  in. 

Psa.  xxiv.  7,  g. 

THIS  is  what  we  all  want.  We  must  have  the 
King  of  Glory  within.  To  have  Him  without, 
even  though  He  be  on  the  Throne,  will  not  avail. 
He  must  come  in  to  abide,  to  reign,  to  sway  His 
sceptre,  to  keep  the  everlasting  doors  through 
which  He  has  passed.  This  has  been  our  diffi- 
culty, that  those  doors  have  so  often  been 
forced.  We  want  one  who  is  strong  and  mighty 
to  keep  them  strongly  barred  against  our  mortal 
foe. 

This  Psalm  was  first  realized  in  the  entrance 
of  the  Ark  into  Mount  Zion,  when  God  went 
up  with  a  merry  noise.  It  is  supposed  that  the 
first  part  of  the  verse  was  a  challenge  from  the 
warders  of  the  ancient  gates,  whilst  the  second 
was  a  reply  from  the  escorting  band  that  ac- 
companied the  sacred  emblem.  It  was  a  mo- 
ment of  vast  triumph  when  the  Ark  of  the  King 
of  Glory  passed  to  the  ancient  city  of  the  Jebu- 
sites. 

A  still  greater  fulfillment  took  place  when 
Jesus,  having  overcome  the  sharpness  of  death, 
victor  over  sin  and  the  grave,  mighty  in  battle, 
vanquished  principalities  and  powers,  and  en- 
tered the  city  of  God.  Then  to  and  fro  these 
challenges  and  answers  flew  between  the  angels 
that  awaited  Him,  and  those  who  accompanied. 

But  the  most  vital  fulfillment  is  when  the  heart 
opens  to  receive  Him,  and  He  enters,  to  go  out 
no  more,  and  to  hold  it  against  all  comers.  Oh, 
beaten  and  baffled  saint,  it  is  impossible  for  thee 
to  fail  when  Jesus,  all-victorious,  garrisons  thy 
heart !  He  is  strong  and  mighty.  Dost  thou 
want  strength?  It  is  in  the  strong  Son  of  God. 
Dost  thou  want  might?  He  is  all-mighty.  Dost 
tliou  want  deliverance  from  thy  foes?  He  is 
mighty  in  battle. 

24 


The  secret  of  the  Lord  is  with  them  that  fear 
Him.  Psa.  XXV.  14. 

WHAT  marvellous  words  !  They  remind  one 
of  the  sapphire  work  which  the  elders  saw  at  the 
foot  of  the  throne,  and  which  was  like  "the 
body  of  heaven  for  clearness."  Three  different 
renderings  are  suggested  by  the  R.  v. 

The  Secret  of  the  Lord. — To  some  it  is  per- 
mitted to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Heaven.  To  these  the  white  stone  is  given,  on 
which  is  engraven  a  name,  which  only  he  knows 
that  receives  it.  There  are  secret  passages  of 
love  between  Christ  and  the  believing  soul,  which 
it  would  not  be  lawful  for  it  to  utter.  High  fel- 
lowship :  deep  blessedness.  Things  which  eye 
hath  not  seen.  Jesus  revealed  His  secrets  when 
Judas  had  gone  forth.  "  Wherefore  askest  thou 
after  My  name,"  He  said  to  Manoah,  **  seeing  it 
is  secret?" 

The  Counsel  of  the  Lord. — "  His  Name  shall 
be  called  .  .  .  Counsellor."  He  draws  near  to 
those  that  fear  to  grieve  Him,  and  gives  them 
counsel.  He  instructs  them  in  the  way  that  He 
chooses  for  them  ;  He  guides  them  in  His  truth 
and  teaches  them ;  He  guides  them  in  judgment ; 
and  tells  them,  as  He  did  Abraham,  what  He  is 
about  to  do. 

The  Friendship  of  the  Lord. — "Ye  are  My 
friends,"  said  Jesus,  "  if  ye  do  whatsoever  I 
command  you."  He  longs  for  friends — those  to 
whom  He  can  tell  His  desires,  on  whom  He  may 
impose  implicit  confidence,  and  who  will  be  so 
taken  up  with  Him  as  to  be  indifferent  to  every- 
thing else,  their  one  purpose  to  do  His  least  bid- 
ding. Oh  to  be  honored  with  the  personal 
friendship  of  Jesus  !  It  were  a  rare  privilege  to 
be  entrusted  with  His  secrets,  and  to  hear  Him 
say,  "I  have  not  called  you  servants,  but 
friends." 

25 


/  will  wash  ?nine  hands  in  innocency. 

Psa.  xxvi.  6. 

THE  Psalmist  realized  that  he  could  not  avail 
himself  of  all  that  was  typified  by  the  altar,  un- 
less, so  far  as  he  knew  himself,  he  had  washed 
his  hands  in  innocency.  But  he  also  knew  that 
the  washing,  to  be  effective,  must  be  in  costlier 
waters  than  those  of  his  own  innocency.  The 
soul  requires  a  Saviour  who  comes  by  water  and 
blood,  not  by  water  only. 

The  compassing  of  the  altar  is  probably  a  pic- 
turesque way  of  describing  the  joyous  or  penitent 
circle  of  worshippers  that  gathered  around  the 
altar;  and  which  needed  to  be  prepared  for  by 
the  usual  lustrations,  "The  baptisms  and  laying 
on  of  hands."  We  must  separate  ourselves  from 
known  sin,  and  wash  our  hands  in  innocency,  if 
we  are  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  altar  and  its 
sacred  associations. 

There  is  the  sacrifice  of  the  burnt-offerings 
which  stands  for  Christ's  perfectness  and  entire 
devotedness  to  God  on  our  behalf.  But  how  can 
we  be  utterly  given  up  to  God  unless,  so  far  as 
we  know,  we  are  innocent  of  presumptuous  and 
cherished  sin  ? 

There  are  the  sacrifices  of  the  meal-offering 
and  xkit  peace-offering.  But  how  can  we  feed  on 
Christ,  or  feast  with  Him  in  holy  rapture,  whilst 
we  are  concealing  the  stains  of  the  hands  that 
take  the  food  ? 

There  is  the  sacrifice  of  the  sin-offering.  But 
is  it  not  a  sacrilege  to  claim  a  share  in  its  bless- 
ing if  we  permit  those  very  sins  which  cost  the 
Saviour  agony  and  tears?  No;  we  must  come 
out  and  be  separate ;  we  must  be  willing  for  God 
to  examine  and  prove  us  ;  we  must  hate  the  con- 
gregation of  the  wicked,  their  conversation  and 
ways;  we  must  occupy  ourselves  perpetually 
with  the  Divine  loving-kindness  and  truth.  So 
only  can  we  compass  the  altar  of  God,  and  taste 
its  comfort  and  help. 

26 


One  thing  have  I  desired  of  the  Lord,  that  will 
I  seek  after.  Fsa.  xxvii.  4. 

ONE  purpose  dominated  prayer  and  life.  It 
was  never  long  absent  from  the  Psalmist's 
thought.  The  men  of  one  idea  are  irresistible. 
The  arrowy  stream  will  force  its  way  through  the 
toughest  soil.  See  that  all  the  prayers,  incidents, 
and  circumstances  of  life  subserve  one  intense 
purpose.  String  all  the  beads  on  one  thread. 
When  the  eye  is  single,  the  whole  body  is  full  of 
light. 

The  Psalmist's  purpose. — What  a  blessing  that 
the  Psalmist's  purpose  may  be  ours  !  To  dwell 
in  the  house  of  the  Lord  is  to  live  within  the  vail 
in  fellowship  with  God,  in  the  habitual  recollec- 
tion of  His  presence.  To  behold  His  beauty  is 
to  keep  looking  off  unto  Jesus.  To  inquire  in 
His  Temple  is  to  commune  with  the  Lord  about 
all  the  concerns  of  home  and  business,  of  church 
and  commonwealth.  In  senses  of  which  the 
material  Temple  could  give  but  a  faint  concep- 
tion, we  may  dwell  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  all 
the  days  of  our  lives. 

The  Psalmist's  search. — Let  us  seek  after  this 
as  well  as  pray  for  it.  Let  it  be  the  fixed  pur- 
pose and  resolution  of  every  day.  Let  us  begin 
with  it  in  the  morning,  and  at  every  spare  mo- 
ment remember  that  we  have  boldness  to  stand  in 
the  Most  Holy  Place.  Oh  to  be  as  intent  on 
this  high  quest  as  the  man  of  science  to  discover 
nature's  secrets ;  as  the  business  man  to  make  a 
fortune ;  as  the  brave  explorer  to  extort  the  se- 
cret from  the  Polar  Seas  ! 

True  prayer  will  never  be  presumptuous.  It 
will  not  ask  God  to  do  for  us  what  we  may  do 
for  ourselves.  It  will  ask  as  though  all  depended 
on  asking,  but  it  will  seek  as  though  all  depended 
on  seeking. 

"  Thrice  blest,  whose  lives  are  faithful  prayers  : 
What  souls  possess  themselves  so  pure  ?  " 

27 


Feed  them  also,  and  lift  them  tip  forever. 

Psa.  xxviii.  g. 

THE  people  of  God  are  here  compared  to  a 
flock,  scattered  over  many  hills,  marked  by 
differing  brands,  sheltering  in  varied  folds,  but 
under  the  care  of  one  Shepherd,  and  being  con- 
ducted to  one  Home. 

The  holy  soul  is  as  eager  for  the  welfare  of  the 
Lord's  ''beautiful  flock"  as  He  is.  Whatever 
is  dear  to  the  loved  one  is  dear  to  the  lover. 
You  cannot  love  the  pastor  without  taking  a  keen 
and  constant  interest  in  all  that  interests  him,  and 
especially  in  the  sheep  of  his  pasture,  and  the 
people  of  his  hand.  Hence  when  you  are  nearest 
the  Lord,  you  are  almost  certain  to  begin  plead- 
ing for  His  inheritance,  and  saying  :  "  Save  Thy 
people ;  bless  them,  feed  them,  and  lift  them  up 
forever. ' ' 

There  is  an  exquisite  suggestion  in  the  r.  v.  : 
*'  Bear  them  up  forever."  The  Good  Shepherd 
bare  His  flock  through  the  desert,  and  carried 
them  all  the  days  of  old.  It  is  as  easy  for  Him 
to  bear  a  flock,  as  a  single  lamb.  Jesus  does  not 
simply  lead  us  to  green  pastures  and  still  waters, 
He  bears  us,  and  He  bears  us  up,  and  He  does 
so  forever.  Never  tiring,  though  He  imparts 
infinite  rest;  never  ceasing  for  a  moment  His 
shepherd-care.  Are  you  depressed  to-day  ?  Are 
there  strong  influences  dragging  you  down  ? 
Does  your  soul  cleave  to  the  dust  ?  Let  those 
strong  arms  and  that  tender  breast  lift  you  up 
forever.  A  dying  child  asked  her  father  to  place 
his  arms  beneath  her  weary,  emaciated  body. 
"Lift  me,"  she  said.  He  did  so.  "A  little 
higher."  He  did  so.  "  Higher,  father."  And 
when  he  had  lifted  her  as  high  as  he  could,  the 
convulsive  movement  proved  that  Christ  had 
come  to  lift  her  up  forever. 
28 


In  His  tejnple  everything  saith,  Glory. 

Fsa.  xxix.  9  (R.  v.). 

THIS  Psalm  describes  a  thunderstorm  gather- 
ing over  the  Mediterranean,  passing  with  devastat- 
ing fury  over  Palestine,  and  finally  dissolving  in 
floods  of  rain  on  the  pasture-lands  of  Bashan  and 
Gilead.  But  how  differently  such  a  scene  is  re- 
garded !  To  the  man  of  the  world  it  presents 
an  interesting  study,  or  awakes  spasms  of  fear : 
to  the  man  of  God,  contemplating  the  scene  from 
his  safe  hiding  in  the  Temple,  it  seems  as  though 
nature,  with  a  myriad  voices,  were  proclaiming 
the  glory  of  God.  Many  storms  are  sweeping 
athwart  the  world  just  now.  Our  standpoint  for 
watching  them  must  be  God's  presence-cham- 
ber. 

Somehow,  everything  that  has  been,  is,  and 
shall  be ;  all  that  seems  startling  and  dreadful ; 
all  that  excites  fear  and  foreboding — shall  con- 
duce to  the  glory  of  God.  Wait,  O  child  of 
God,  in  patient  trust;  Jehovah  is  King,  and  He 
shall  sit  as  King  forever ;  all  is  under  law. 
*'  Of  Him  and  through  Him  and  to  Him  are  all 
things";  and  to  Him  shall  be  the  glory  for- 
ever. 

Our  body  is  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost : 
does  every  whit  of  it  say.  Glory?  I  know  of 
few  things  that  stir  my  heart  more  than  the  re- 
peated ascription  of  "  Glory  be  to  the  Father, 
and  to  the  Son,  and  to  the  Holy  Ghost."  But 
is  that  the  refrain  of  our  life?  Outside  there 
may  be  confusion  and  storm,  wild  chaos  and 
desolation ;  but  see  to  it  that  from  your  heart's 
shrine  there  rises  moment  after  moment  the  as- 
cription of  "  Glory  be  to  Thee,  O  Thou  most 
High." 

Glory  to  God,  to  God,  he  saith. 
Knowledge  of  suiTering  entereth. 
And  life  is  perfected  in  death. 

29 


Weeping  may   eiidure  for   the   night ;    hut  joy 
cometh  in  the  morning.  Fsa.  xxx.  j. 

THE  Hebrew  might  be  rendered,  "  Weeping 
may  come  in  to  lodge  at  even"  (r.  v.,  marg.). 
See,  at  nightfall,  a  black-vestured  guest  comes  to 
thy  heart.  Thou  must  let  him  in ;  he  brings  a 
warrant  from  your  King  for  his  quartering  and 
entertainment.  But  he  is  only  a  lodger;  he  has 
no  abiding-place  with  thee ;  at  daybreak  he  must 
be  gone.  Canst  thou  not  bear  with  him  for 
these  brief  hours?  It  is  only  for  the  brief  space 
of  an  Eastern  summer-night.  Let  the  first  tint 
of  the  dawn  flush  yon  sky,  he  will  go.  Like  the 
ghosts  of  fable,  he  dies  in  the  light. 

Now,  see,  the  morning  breaks  !  Who  is  this 
hurrying  up  the  hill,  and  knocking  at  the  door  ? 
Hark  to  his  joyous  shout !  Who  is  this?  Ah! 
It  is  Joy.  The  child  of  the  morning  light  I 
The  firstborn  of  Resurrection  !  And  he  comes 
not  as  a  lodger,  but  as  the  Lord  and  Master  of 
Life,  to  abide  forever.  Oh,  welcome  him  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  throw  open  each 
chamber  and  each  closet  in  your  heart,  that  all 
may  be  filled  with  joy  unspeakable  and  full  of 
glory.  And  as  he  enters,  sorrow  and  sighing 
flee  away.  They  have  passed  out  at  the  back 
as  he  came  in  at  the  front. 

Joy  in  the  morning  at  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus :  Joy  in  the  coming  of  the  Saviour  for  His 
bride :  Joy  as  the  Millennium  breaks  on  the 
world :  Joy  when  the  Eternal  Day  comes  to 
gladden  those  who  have  drunk  of  Christ's  sor- 
row, and  shall  share  His  bliss. 

Child  of  God,  be  on  the  outlook  to  welcome 
Joy.  Do  not  fear  his  advent,  nor  thrust  him 
away.  Milton's  L^ Allegro  is  a  truer  presenta- 
tion of  Christian  experience  than  II  Penseroso. 
"Thou  shalt  rejoice  in  every  good  thing  which 
the  Lord  thy  God  givetli  thee." 
30 


Thou  hast  known  my  soul  i?i  adversities. 

Fsa.  xxxi.  7. 

MEN  have  a  way  of  forgetting  their  compan- 
ions when  they  fall  into  adversity.  They  do  not 
know  them  or  visit  them,  or  recognize  them  if 
they  meet  them  in  the  street.  But  the  love  of 
God  is  always  most  tender  and  considerate  then. 
He  seeks  us  out  when  the  sky  is  shadowed,  and 
life  is  overcast  with  sombre  tints.  Adversity,  so 
far  from  alienating  Him,  draws  Him  closer,  and 
brings  out  His  tenderest,  loveliest  traits.  He 
knows  us  in  adversity. 

It  is  only  when  we  are  overtaken  by  adversity 
that  we  are  revealed  in  the  innermost  depths  of 
our  nature.  God  knows  us  in  adversity.  "Thou 
shalt  remember,"  said  Moses,  "all  the  way 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  hath  led  thee  these 
forty  years  in  the  wilderness,  that  He  might 
humble  thee,  to  prove  thee,  to  know  what  was  in 
thine  heart."  What  revelations  of  unsubdued 
pride  and  imperious  self-will  are  afforded,  when 
we  are  searched  and  tested  by  the  fiery  trial  of 
pain  ! 

But  the  margin  (r.  v.)  suggests  another  ren- 
dering: "Thou  hast  known  the  adversities  of 
my  soul."  Is  it  not  enough  that  God  should 
know  ?  Need  we  go  to  all  our  friends  and  ex- 
plain to  them  all  we  are  called  to  endure  ?  Is 
not  this  a  needless  addition  to  their  sorrow,  and 
the  sorrow  of  the  world  ?  What  a  glorious  piece 
of  advice  the  Master  gave,  when  He  said, 
"  Anoint  thine  head  and  wash  thy  face,  that 
thou  appear  not  unto  men  to  fast,  but  to  thy 
Father  which  seeth  in  secret." 

"  Thou  know'st  our  bitterness  ! — our  joys  are  thine ! 
No  stranger  Thou  to  all  our  wanderings  wild ! 
But  yet  Thou  call'st  us  Brethren  !     Sweet  repose 
Is  in  that  word; — the  Lord  who  dwells  on  high 
Knows  all,  yet  loves  us  better  than  He  knows. " 

31 


/  will  i7istruct  thee  and  teach  thee  in  the  way  which 
thou  shall  go.  Psa.  xxxii.  8. 

"LEARN  of  Me,"  said  the  Master:  and  in- 
deed there  is  no  teacher  like  Him ;  no  school 
like  His.  We  stand  at  the  door  of  the  school- 
house,  saying,  "  What  I  know  not,  teach  Thou 
me  "  ;  and  He  does  not  hesitate  to  undertake  our 
case.  But  there  are  several  points  of  difference 
from  our  methods.  In  Christ's  school  there  is 
but  one  Master  for  all  the  scholars,  and  they  all 
learn  from  the  same  books ;  the  pupils  begin  with 
the  upper  classes  and  end  with  the  lowest ;  and 
those  that  are  most  proficient,  and  have  been 
longest  under  His  tuition,  are  most  conscious  of 
their  ignorance.  There  are  no  holidays;  but 
every  day  is  a  holy  day.  The  school  never  breaks 
up ;  but  the  students  leave  it  for  Home,  and  the 
prizes  are  sent  after  them,  and  given  when  they 
arrive. 

We  need  more  than  personal  instruction ;  we 
are  travelling  through  an  unknown  land,  and  re- 
quire direction  for  the  way.  This  also  is  guar- 
anteed ;  but  not  as  in  the  cases  of  tourists,  who 
extract  all  information  from  their  friends  before 
they  start  from  home,  as  to  the  places  they  are 
about  to  visit.  Our  Guide  accompanies  us.  He 
counsels  us  with  His  eye  upon  us,  detecting  every 
pitfall  and  chasm,  and  warning  us  ;  perhaps  even 
guiding  us  by  the  movement  of  His  eye. 

How  greatly  then  are  we  in  need  of  the  quick- 
ened sense  !  The  eye  fixed  on  His  eye ;  the  ear 
opened  to  His  slightest  whisper;  the  foot  quick 
to  place  itself  down  in  His  footprints.  The 
horse  and  mule  need  bit  and  bridle;  but  it  is 
enough  for  us  if  the  heart  fears  to  miss  the  least 
indication  of  the  Master's  will.  Be  willing 
to  know;  it  then  becomes  His  part  to  make 
thee  know  somehow.  If  not  in  one  way,  then 
in  another. 

33 


The  earth  is  full  of  the  loving-kindness  of  the 

Lord.  Psa.  xxxiii.  ^  (K.  v.). 

THE  Psalmist  means  that  there  is  no  spot  in 
it  where  the  traces  and  footprints  of  God's  love 
may  not  be  discerned,  if  only  the  eyes  and  the 
heart  are  opened.  Just  as  every  corner  of  a  room 
which  faces  the  south  is  filled  with  the  morning 
sunlight,  unless  artificial  and  violent  means  are 
adopted  to  keep  it  out,  so  every  part  of  human 
life  is  full  of  God's  loving-kindness,  unless  it  is 
blocked  out  by  sin.  You  think  that  your  lot  is 
absolutely  destitute  of  God's  loving-kindness; 
but  may  not  your  eyes  be  blinded  ?  May  there 
not  be  more  than  you  suppose  ?  May  you  not  be 
so  occupied  with  the  one  irksome  thing  in  it  as 
to  be  oblivious  to  ten  thousand  marks  of  tender 
compassion  and  unobtrusive  mercy  ? 

Your  chamber  is  very  bare  and  comfortless; 
but  it  is  part  of  the  earth,  and  it  is  therefore  full 
of  God's  loving-kindness :  look  around  for  it. 
Your  home  seems  uncongenial  and  trying ;  but  it 
must  be  full  to  the  brim  of  loving-kindness. 
Your  daily  life  is  hard  and  difficult ;  but  there  is 
as  much  loving-kindness  in  it  as  if  it  were  easy 
and  prosperous.  There  is  indeed  more  loving- 
kindness  in  these  trying  and  difficult  surround- 
ings than  in  happier  ones.  It  costs  God  more  to 
give  us  pain.  We  need  more  love,  and  we  get 
it.  We  should  rejoice  in  it  if  our  eyes  were 
opened. 

The  loveless  heart  can  detect  nothing  but  dis- 
appointment and  unkindness.  But  the  heart 
that  loves,  and  sings,  and  rejoices  in  the  Lord, 
detects  the  evident  tokens  of  God's  love;  just  as 
the  child  of  nature  knows  when  friend  or  foe  has 
passed  through  the  forest-glade,  by  indications 
which  would  be  unintelligible  to  our  unpracticed 
eye.  Echo  always  answers  in  the  same  key  in 
which  we  address  her  ! 

33 


The  Lord  is  nigh  unto  them  that  are  of  a  broken 
heart.  Psa.  xxxiv.  i8. 

WHAT  broke  your  heart  ?  Unkindness  ?  De- 
sertion ?  Unfaithfulness  on  the  part  of  those  you 
trusted  ?  Or  did  you  attempt  to  do  something 
which  was  beyond  your  power,  and  in  the  effort, 
the  heartstrings  snapped?  A  bird  with  a  broken 
wing,  an  animal  with  a  broken  leg,  a  woman  with 
a  broken  heart,  a  man  with  a  broken  purpose  in 
his  life — these  seem  to  drop  out  of  the  main  cur- 
rent of  life  into  shadow.  They  go  apart  to  suf- 
fer and  droop.  The  busy  rush  of  life  goes  on 
without  them.  But  God  draws  nigh.  The  Great 
Lover  of  man  is  always  at  the  best  when  the  lights 
burn  low  and  dim  in  the  house  of  life.  He 
always  comes  to  us  then.  He  shall  sit  as  the  Re- 
finer. 

Where  do  you  see  love  perfected  ?  Not  be- 
tween the  father  and  his  stalwart  son  who  counts 
himself  independent,  or  between  the  mother  and 
the  girl  in  whom  love  is  awakening  in  its  first 
faint  blush :  but  where  the  crippled  child  of 
eleven  years  lies  in  the  truckle-bed,  pale  and 
wan,  unable  to  help  herself.  There  the  noblest 
fruits  of  love  ripen  and  yield  refreshment.  The 
father  draws  nigh  to  the  little  sufferer,  so  soon  as 
he  gets  home  at  night,  and  the  mother  is  nigh  all 
the  time  to  sympathize  and  comfort  and  minister. 
So  brokenness  attracts  God.  It  is  dark;  you 
think  yourself  deserted ;  but  it  is  not  so.  God 
is  there — He  is  nigh ;  call  to  Him — a  whisper 
will  bring  a  response. 


"There,  little  one,  don't  cry; 
They  have  broken  your  heart,  I  know ; 
And  the  rainbow  gleams 
Of  your  youthful  dreams 
Are  things  of  the  long  ago ; 
But  heaven  holds  all  for  which  you  sigh — 
There,  little  one,  don't  cry." 
34 


Them  that  are  quiet  in  the  land. 

Fsa.  xxz'.  20. 

A  SIGNIFICANT  title  for  the  saints,  which 
has  been  adopted  at  least  by  one  great  religious 
body.  In  every  age  God  has  had  His  quiet  ones. 
Retired  from  its  noise  and  strife,  withdrawn  from 
its  ambitions  and  jealousies,  unshaken  by  its 
alarms ;  because  they  had  entered  into  the  secret 
of  a  life  hidden  in  God.  We  must  have  an  out- 
let for  the  energies  of  our  nature.  If  we  are  un- 
familiar with  the  hidden  depths  of  eternal  life, 
we  shall  necessarily  live  a  busy,  fussy,  frothy, 
ambitious,  eager  life,  in  contact  with  men  and 
things.  But  the  man  who  is  intense  on  the  eter- 
nal, can  be  quiet  in  the  temporal. 

The  man  whose  house  is  shallow,  but  one  room 
in  depth,  cannot  help  living  on  the  street.  But 
directly  we  begin  to  dwell  deep — deep  in  God, 
deep  in  the  watch  for  the  Master's  advent,  deep 
in  considering  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  we 
become  quiet.  We  fill  our  little  space ;  we  get 
our  daily  bread  and  are  content ;  we  enjoy  nat- 
ural and  simple  pleasures ;  we  do  not  strive,  nor 
cry,  nor  cause  our  voice  to  be  heard  in  the 
street;  we  pass  through  the  world,  with  noiseless 
tread,  dropping  a  blessing  on  all  we  meet;  but 
we  are  no  sooner  recognized  than  we  are  gone. 

Get  quiet,  beloved  soul ;  tell  out  thy  sorrow 
and  complaint  to  God.  Let  not  the  greatest 
business  or  pressure  divert  thee  from  God. 
When  men  rage  about  thee,  go  and  tell  Jesus. 
When  storms  are  high,  hide  thee  in  His  secret 
place.  When  others  compete  for  fame  and  ap- 
plause, and  their  passion  might  infect  thee,  get 
into  thy  closet,  and  shut  thy  door,  and  quiet 
thyself  as  a  weaned  babe.  For  if  thy  voice  is 
quiet  to  man,  let  it  never  cease  to  speak  loudly 
and  mightily  for  man  in  the  ear  of  God.  Oh  to 
be  a  Quietist  in  the  best  sense  ! 
35 


In  Thy  light  shall  we  see  light. 

Psa.  XX XVI.  g. 

THERE  are  many  dark  things  around  us  in 
which  we  detect  light  only  when  we  behold  them 
in  the  light  which  streams  from  the  face  of  Jesus. 
In  His  light  we  see  light  in  them.  Yonder  lies 
a  bit  of  charcoal,  black  and  opaque;  and  even 
when  it  has  been  changed  by  chemistry  to  crys- 
tals, it  is  dull  and  dense,  so  long  as  it  is  in  the 
dark.  Who  could  guess  that  such  depths  and 
fountains  of  light  exist  in  that  insignificant  atom? 
But  let  it  be  brought  into  the  rays  of  the  morning 
sun,  and  as  it  flashes  and  glistens,  in  that  light 
we  see  its  light;  fountains  of  light  welling  up; 
caverns  of  light,  where  the  elves  and  fairies  of 
childish  story  hide. 

So  it  is  of  the  Bible. — Its  pages  seem  devoid 
of  help  and  comfort,  till  we  open  them  under 
the  light  of  Jesus.  Cleopas  and  the  other  learned 
this  on  the  road  to  Emmaus. 

So  it  is  of  nature. — The  Greek,  lover  of  nature 
though  he  was,  never  saw  in  her  face  the  loveli- 
ness which  has  been  the  theme  of  Christian  poe- 
try and  art.  In  the  light  of  Christ's  parables 
and  allusions  we  see  light. 

"  Heaven  above  is  softer  blue, 

Earth  around  is  sweeter  green ; 
Something  lives  in  every  hue, 

Christless  eyes  have  never  seen. 
Birds  with  gladder  songs  o'erflow, 

Flowers  with  deeper  beauties  shine, 
While  I  know,  as  now  I  know, 

I  am  His,  and  He  is  mine." 

So  it  is  of  human  love. — There  is  a  new  pre- 
ciousness,  tenderness,  thoughtfulness,  blessed- 
ness, where  the  love  and  light  of  Jesus  reign  in 
home  and  heart.  We  see  a  loveliness  and  beauty 
in  our  dear  ones  that  had  eluded  us  till  we  be- 
held them  in  the  love  of  Jesus. 
36 


Delight  thyself  also  in  the  Lord. 

Psa.  xxxvii.  4. 
ONE  of  Tauler's  hymns  is  a  lovely  specimen  of 
how  a  man  delights  in  the  Lord.  He  takes  a 
number  of  familiar  instances  of  close  affinity  and 
interdependence,  and  applies  them  to  the  in- 
timacy subsisting  between  him  and  his  beloved 
Lord  : — 

"  As  the  bridegroom  to  his  chosen, 
As  the  king  unto  his  reahn, 
As  the  keep  unto  the  castle, 
As  the  pilot  to  the  helm, 

So,  Lord,  art  Thou  to  me." 

But  we  cannot  delight  thus  without  effort. 
We  must  withdraw  our  eager  desires  from  the 
things  of  earth,  fastening  and  fixing  them  on 
Him.  The  current  of  our  being  must  set  toward 
God.  We  must  cultivate  the  habit  of  holy  in- 
timacy with  Him,  whom  the  heaven  of  heavens 
cannot  contain.  We  must  accustom  ourselves  to 
hold  up  before  us  the  successive  attributes  and 
works  of  God,  till  they  strike  our  admiration, 
and  elicit  our  homage. 

Then  we  shall  find  rest  unto  our  souls,  because 
He  will  give  us  the  desires  of  our  hearts.  When 
God  Himself  is  our  desire  we  shall  be  forever 
delivered  from  disappointment,  because  we  can 
always  have  Him ;  we  shall  be  removed  from 
risk  of  penury  and  want,  because  we  can  have  as 
much  of  Him  as  we  need ;  we  shall  be  beyond 
the  fear  of  loss,  because  He  changes  not.  They 
who  want  God  possess  Him.  To  long  for  God 
is  to  have  that  for  which  you  long.  To  delight 
in  God  is  to  delight  in  One,  of  whom  there  is  an 
infinity  for  every  one,  so  that  there  need  be  no 
stint,  no  jealousy,  no  envy,  no  satiety.  Every 
one  can  have  as  much  as  he  can  hold.  '*  He 
giveth  not  His  Spirit  by  measure,"  that  is,  by 
metre.  There  is  no  gauge  of  our  consumption  I 
37 


Lord,  all  my  desire  is  before  Thee. 

Psa.  xxxviii.  g. 

GOD  knows  our  desires.  We  cannot  always 
put  them  into  words;  we  dare  not  trust  them  to 
the  ears  of  our  dearest,  but  they  lie  open  to  Him 
— the  ideal  w^e  desire  in  our  holiest  moments; 
the  thorn  in  the  flesh  from  which  we  long  to  be 
delivered  ;  the  prayer  for  one  who  is  dearer  to 
us  than  life.  ' '  Lord,  all  my  desire  is  before 
Thee." 

Think  of  the  desires  of  the  saints — for  the  real- 
ization of  their  ideals  ;  for  the  salvation  of  men ; 
for  the  glory  of  the  Redeemer ;  for  the  Divine 
answer  to  the  scoff,  the  sneer,  the  taunt  of  infi- 
delity; for  the  coming  of  the  King,  the  restora- 
tion of  His  ancient  people,  the  setting  up  of  the 
millennial  reign. 

"  Lo,  as  some  ship,  outworn  and  overladen, 

Strains  for  the  harbor,  where  her  sails  are  furled ; 
Lo,  as  some  innocent  and  eager  maiden 
Leans  o'er  the  wistful  limit  of  the  world  : 

"  So  even  I,  and  with  a  pang  more  thrilling ; 
So  even  I,  and  with  a  hope  more  sweet, 
Yearn  for  the  sign,  O  Christ !  of  Thy  fulfilling. 
Faint  for  the  flaming  of  Thine  advent  feet." 

And  remember.  He  who  implanted  the  desire 
does  abundantly  above  all  we  ask  or  think. 
There  is  always  a  defect  in  every  earthly  joy,  a 
something  which  shows  itself  for  a  moment  to 
elude  us. 

<*  It  blossoms  just  beyond  the  paths  I  follow, 
It  shines  beyond  the  farthest  stars  I  see ; 
It  echoes  faint  from  ocean  caverns  hollow. 
And  from  the  land  of  dreams  it  beckons  me." 

But  it  never  can  be  thus  with  any  desire  that 
God  has  taught  us  to  cherish.  Of  these,  as  the 
ages  pass,  we  shall  say  :  It  was  a  true  report  that  I 
heard,  but  the  half  was  not  told.  The  desire 
which  is  directed  to  God  cannot  miss  gratifica- 
tion. 

38 


i 


/  am  a  stranger  with  Thee,  and  a  sojourner. 

Psa.  xxxix.  12. 

SORROW  and  pain  had  taught  the  Psalmist 
some  deep  lessons  touching  the  life  of  men 
around  him — they  seemed  to  be  shadows  pursu- 
ing shadows.  They  walked  in  a  vain  show,  and 
were  disquieted  in  vain.  At  their  best  estate, 
/.  e.,  when  most  firmly  rooted,  they  were  only  a 
breath,  curling  from  lip  or  nostril  into  the  chill 
morning  air,  and  then  gone  forever.  The  out- 
ward life  and  activity  of  man  seemed  to  him  as 
the  shadow  which  darkens  for  a  moment  a  whole 
mountain  side,  and,  whilst  you  look,  it  has  been 
chased  away  by  the  succeeding  sheets  of  sun- 
shine. 

Amid  all  these  vanities,  the  child  of  God  is  a 
pilgrim  to  the  Unseen.  He  passes  through 
Vanity  Fair,  with  his  eyes  steadily  fixed  on  the 
Eternal  City,  whose  Builder  and  Maker  is  God. 
Abraham  first  described  himself  as  a  stranger 
and  sojourner,  when  he  stood  up  from  before  his 
dead,  and  craved  a  burying-place  from  the  sons 
of  Heth.  All  his  children,  those  who  inherit  a 
like  faith,  must  say  the  same.  Faith  cannot  find 
a  home  on  this  side  of  the  stars.  It  has  caught 
a  glimpse  of  the  Infinite,  and  it  can  never  be 
content  with  anything  less. 

But  we  are  sojourners  *'with  God."  He  is 
our  constant  companion.  What  Greatheart  was 
to  the  women  and  feeble  ones,  God  is  to  each  of 
His  saints.  We  maybe  strangers;  but  we  are 
not  solitary.  We  may  be  compelled  to  relax  our 
grasp  from  the  hands  of  beloved  ones ;  but  never 
alone — the  Father  is  with  us.  Good  company, 
safe  escort,  is  it  not  ?  In  the  strength  of  it,  we 
may  obey  without  reluctance  or  fear  the  old 
motto — Habitay  nt  migraiurus :  Live  as  about 
to  emigrate.  "There  is  nothing  greater  than 
God ;  nothing  less  than  I.  He  is  rich  •  I  am 
very  poor,  but  I  want  for  nothing." 
39 


/  delight  to  do  Thy  will,  O  my  God. 

Psa.  xl.  7,  8. 

THE  writer  of  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews 
(chap.  X.)  lays  great  stress  on  these  words.  He 
says  that  this  yielding  up  of  Christ's  will  to  His 
Father's  was  consummated  on  the  cross,  and 
was  the  inner  heart  of  our  Saviour's  passion. 
''By  which  will  (surrendered  and  given  back  to 
God)  we  have  been  sanctified."  He  then  pro- 
ceeds to  suggest  that  it  is  only  as  we  enter  into  a 
living  oneness  with  Jesus  in  this  that  we  can  pass 
from  the  outer  court  and  have  boldness  to  enter 
into  the  Holiest  of  all.  This,  he  says,  is  the 
new  and  living  way.  Jesus  entered  into  the 
Holiest  because  He  gave  Himself  absolutely  to 
His  Father.  We  cannot  expect  to  go  thither  till 
we  have  become  possessed  of  the  same  spirit. 

It  is  a  solemn  question  for  each.  Have  we  all 
stood  at  the  cross,  as  the  slave  of  old  at  the 
door-post  of  his  master's  house,  and  said,  "I 
love  my  Master.  I  will  not  go  out  free  "  ?  Have 
we  been  united  to  that  cross,  as  by  the  boring  of 
the  awl  ?  Have  we  so  embraced  the  will  of 
God  that  we  are  prepared  to  follow  it,  though  it 
lead  to  the  Cross  and  grave?  Then  one  condi- 
tion at  least  is  fulfilled  for  our  standing  una- 
bashed where  angels  veil  their  faces. 

But  there  is  yet  another  condition.  We  can 
have  no  right  to  stand  within  the  Holiest,  except 
through  the  blood  of  Jesus,  shed  for  sin  on  the 
cross.  This  is  necessary  ere  sinners  can  have 
boldness  in  the  presence  of  Divine  Purity. 

When  Rutherford  was  like  to  die  of  sore  ill- 
ness, instead  of  a  martyr's  death,  he  said,  '*  I 
would  think  it  a  more  glorious  way  of  going 
home,  to  lay  down  my  life  for  the  cause  at  the 
cross  of  Edinburgh  or  St.  Andrew's ;  but  I  sub- 
mit to  my  Master's  will.  Oh  for  arms  to  em- 
brace Him  !  " 

40 


Blessed  is  he  that  considereth  the  poor. 

Fsa.  xli,  I. 

THE  realm  of  Blessedness  is  all  around.  It 
may  be  entered  at  any  minute,  and  we  may 
dwell  in  it  all  the  days  of  our  life.  Our  enjoy- 
ment of  blessedness  is  totally  undetermined  by 
outward  circumstances.  If  you  stand  in  some 
great  retail  emporium  and  watch  the  faces  of  the 
women,  you  will  be  greatly  instructed.  Yonder 
sits  a  richly-dressed  lady  with  society  and  fash- 
ion, dress  and  money  at  her  command,  but  her 
manner  and  tone  are  utterly  weary  and  dissatis- 
fied ;  whilst  across  the  counter  a  girl  waits  on 
her,  whose  thin  face  and  simple  attire  tell  their 
own  story,  but  her  expression  and  bearing  be- 
token the  possession  of  an  inner  calm  and 
strength,  an  inexhaustible  fund  of  patience  and 
sweetness.  Such  contrasts  meet  us  everywhere. 
The  realm  of  blessedness  dips  down  into  humble 
and  lowly  lives  on  every  side  of  us.  Have  we 
entered  it? 

Christ's  beatitudes  give  us  eight  gates,  any  one 
of  which  will  immediately  conduct  us  within  its 
confines.  But  here  is  another  :  "  Blessed  is  he 
that  considereth  the  poor."  Even  if  you  cannot 
help  or  relieve  them  to  any  appreciable  extent, 
consider  them  ;  let  them  feel  that  you  are  think- 
ing of  and  for  them ;  do  not  hurry  them  when 
they  recite  their  long,  sad  story;  put  them  at 
their  ease ;  treat  them  with  Christian  courtesy 
and  consideration.  Begin  at  once.  There  are 
plenty  around  you,  who,  if  not  poor  in  the 
things  of  this  world,  are  poor  in  love  and  hope 
and  the  knowledge  of  God.  Tell  them  of  ''the 
blessing  of  the  Lord,"  which  **maketh  rich, 
and  He  addeth  no  sorrow  with  it."  Silver  and 
gold  you  may  have  none ;  but  such  as  you  have 
be  sure  and  give.  Learn  to  consider  people. 
Try  and  look  on  things  from  their  standpoint. 
41 


Deep  calleth  unto  deep. 

Psa.  xlii.  7. 

THERE  are  wonderful  harmonies  in  nature. 
Voices  call  to  one  another  across  vast  spaces. 
The  depths  below  the  firmament  call  to  the 
heights  above.  The  deep  of  the  ocean  calls  to 
the  deep  of  the  azure  sky.  Listen,  O  my  soul, 
to  the  mighty  voices  sounding  ever  through  the 
universe  of  God. 

The  deep  of  Divine  Redemption  calls  to  the 
deep  of  human  7ieed. — It  sometimes  seems  as 
though  the  opposite  were  true,  and  as  though  the 
cry  originated  in  man ;  but  it  is  not  so.  God  is 
always  first ;  and  as  He  looks  into  hearts  stricken 
and  desperate,  conscious  of  unfathomable  yearn- 
ings, and  infinite  capacity,  He  calls  aloud,  and 
the  depth  of  His  heart  appeals  to  the  depth  of 
the  heart  of  man.  Would  that  it  might  ever 
answer  back  ! 

The  deep  of  Chrisfs  wealth  calls  to  the  deep 
of  the  sainf  s  poverty. — He  looks  down  upon  our 
attenuated  and  poverty-stricken  experience  with 
an  infinite  yearning.  He  cannot  endure  that  we 
should  go  through  life  naked  and  miserable,  poor 
and  blind,  when  He  has  got  gold,  and  precious 
stones,  and  white  raiment.  "  Hearken,  O 
daughter,  and  consider.  Forsake  thy  father's 
house.  Come  unto  Me,  and  receive  from  My 
fullness.  Open  thy  mouth  wide,  and  I  will  fill 
it." 

The  deep  of  the  Holy  Spirit's  intercession  calls 
to  the  deep  of  the  Church's  prayer. — He  awakens 
in  us  groanings  that  cannot  be  uttered,  and  bur- 
dens us  with  the  will  of  God. 

Whatever  depths  there  are  in  God,  they  appeal 
to  corresponding  depths  in  us.  And  whatever 
be  the  depths  of  our  sorrow,  desire,  or  necessity, 
there  are  correspondences  in  God  from  which 
full  supplies  may  be  obt-ained.  Thou  hast  the 
pitcher  of  faith,  and  the  well  is  deep. 
42 


O  Godf  my  God ! 

Psa.  xliii.  4, 

WHAT  a  change  within  the  soul  one  short 
hour  spent  in  God's  presence  will  prevail  to 
make  I  The  psalmist  is  opposed  by  an  ungodly- 
nation,  and  resisted  by  a  deceitful  and  unjust 
man.  He  mourns  because  of  the  oppression  of 
the  enemy ;  he  questions  whether  God  has  cast 
him  off.  Then  led  by  those  twin  angels,  Light 
and  Truth,  commissioned  and  sent  forth  for  that 
purpose  from  the  presence  of  God,  he  enters  in 
thought  and  spirit  within  the  precincts  of  the  Di- 
vine Tabernacle,  and  stands  before  the  Altar. 
Immediately  the  clouds  break.  Putting  his  puny 
hand  upon  the  great  God,  he  appropriates  all  He 
is  and  has,  as  though  it  were  His  own,  and  takes 
again,  in  a  very  ecstasy  of  realizing  faith,  his 
harp,  too  long  silent,  and  breaks  into  rapturous 
melody. 

Have  you  not  sometimes  groped  in  the  dark, 
till  those  two  angels  have  come  to  lead  you  also 
to  the  altar  where  the  High  Priest  stands?  Then 
what  a  change  !  Your  circumstances  have  not 
altered,  but  you  have  conceived  a  new  idea  of 
what  God  can  be  to  you.  You  have  said,  This 
God  is  my  God  forever  and  ever.  You  have 
said,  O  God,  my  God  !  You  have  laid  your 
hand  on  God's  wealth  and  called  it  all  your  own. 
You  have  chided  your  soul  for  being  disquieted 
and  depressed  whilst  such  a  heritage  is  yours. 
You  have  spoken  of  God,  first  as  the  God  of 
your  strength ;  secondly,  as  the  gladness  of  your 
joy ;  thirdly,  as  the  health  of  your  face. 

"  Why,  therefore,  should  we  do  ourselves  this  wrong, 
Or  others — that  we  are  not  always  strong. 
That  we  are  ever  overborne  with  care, 
That  we  should  ever  weak  and  heartless  be. 
Anxious  or  troubled  when  with  us  is  prayer, 
And  joy  and  strength  and  courage  are  with  Thee?" 

4U 


Thou  art  my  King,  O  God :  command  victories. 
Psa.  xliv.  4  (R.  v.,  marg.'). 

BEFORE  a  man  can  say  that  God  is  his  King, 
he  must  have  very  definitely  consecrated  himself 
to  God.  The  relation  of  too  many  believers  to 
Christ  falls  short  of  this  supreme  act  of  the  soul ; 
and  in  consequence  their  lives  lack  directness, 
power,  victory  over  temptation.  My  reader, 
thou  hast  been  sorely  tried  by  overmastering 
temptations  before  which  thy  resolutions  have 
been  swept  as  children's  sand-heaps  by  the  tide. 
Wilt  thou  quietly  consider  whether  from  the  very 
depth  of  thy  being  thou  hast  ever  said  to  God, 
Thou  art  my  King.  The  kingship  of  Jesus  is 
always  associated  with  victory ;  and  just  as  soon 
as  His  supremacy  is  acknowledged,  He  will  be- 
gin to  command  deliverance  and  victory. 

Behold,  thy  King  cometh  to  thee,  having  sal- 
vation. Lift  up  your  heads,  O  ye  gates,  and  the 
King  of  Glory  shall  come  in ;  but  He  is  also  the 
merciful  Saviour.  Him  hath  God  exalted  with 
His  right  hand  to  be  a  Prince  and  a  Saviour. 
It  is  always  Prince  first.  If  thou  shalt  confess 
with  thy  mouth  Jesus  as  Lord,  thou  shalt  be 
saved. 

What  a  battle-shout  this  is  !  Whenever  temp- 
tation is  near ;  when  the  foe  seems  about  to  take 
the  citadel  by  assault;  when  heart  and  flesh 
quail  before  the  noise  of  battle — then  to  look  up 
to  the  living  Christ,  and  say,  Thou  art  my  King, 
O  Son  of  God  :  command  victory !  There  is 
no  devil  in  hell  but  would  flee  before  that  cry  of 
the  tempted  and  tried  believer;  and  God  could 
not  be  neglectful  of  such  an  appeal.  Jacob  is 
only  a  worm ;  yet  even  he  is  more  than  a  con- 
queror when  God  fights  for  him.  It  is  thus  that 
Jacob  Behmen  begins  one  of  his  letters:  "May 
the  Overcomer,  Jesus  Christ,  through  Himself, 
overcome  in  us  all  His  enemies." 
44 


My  work  is  for  a  king. 

Fsa.  xlv.  I  (r.  V,,  marg.), 

THIS  dignifies  the  meanest  occupation.  By 
this  motive  the  apostles  urged  their  converts  to 
daily  duty,  slaves  though  they  were  in  the  houses 
of  rich  and  godless  owners.  They  were  taught 
to  look  upon  their  lot  as  the  will  of  God ;  and  to 
do  service  as  unto  the  Lord,  and  not  unto  men, 
seeking  the  praise  of  God  as  their  sufficient  re- 
ward. 

As  we  take  in  hand  the  bits  of  carved  work 
which  once  stood  high  in  the  cathedral  roof,  but 
now  lie  almost  hidden  by  rank  vegetation,  and 
consider  the  exquisite  carving,  which  the  artists 
never  thought  would  be  so  minutely  inspected, 
we  feel  that  each  unknown  craftsman  did  his 
work  for  the  King.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the 
religious  intention  of  their  work  elevated  their 
meanest  toils  to  the  level  of  sacred  service.  Let 
us  endeavor  each  day  to  realize  that  everything 
may  be  done  for  Jesus  which  may  be  done  at  all. 
Do  you  take  food  ?  It  is  that  the  body  may  be 
deft  and  quick  to  execute  His  purposes.  Do  you 
rest  and  seek  recreation  ?  It  is  that  your  energies 
may  be  recuperated,  and  that  the  tide  of  nervous 
power  may  return  with  fresh  vigor.  Do  you 
manufacture,  buy  and  sell,  advise  and  preach? 
All  may  be  inspired  by  the  one  purpose,  that  His 
will  may  be  done.  His  kingdom  come — which  is 
righteousness,  peace,  and  good-will  to  men. 

Such  a  life,  however,  is  only  possible  when  the 
heart  overflows,  bubbles  up  and  over,  with  goodly 
matter.  The  heart  must  always  be  in  contact 
with  the  fervent  love  of  Christ.  It  is  only  as 
the  Divine  heat  passes  into  us  that  the  affections 
will  boil  up  and  overflow  in  holy  act.  Let  us 
make  the  things  about  the  King  before  we  speak 
them.  Let  us  give  time  to  muse,  that  the  fire 
may  burn. 

46 


He  maketh  7vars  to  cease. 

Fsa.  xlvi.  g. 

*'  MY  soul  is  among  lions,  and  I  dwell  among 
those  that  are  set  on  fire  :  even  the  sons  of  men, 
whose  words  are  spears  and  arrows,  and  their 
tongue  a  sharp  sword."  Such  is  the  frequent 
confession  of  the  child  of  God.  Hemmed  in  by- 
foes,  the  butt  of  vehement  hate  !  But  the  mo- 
ment comes  at  length  when  God  arises  to  deliver. 
He  utters  His  voice — the  earth  melts.  In  the 
night  the  enemy  has  wrapped  up  his  tents  and 
stolen  silently  away.  War  has  ceased,  and  all 
the  land  of  life  lies  plain  and  open. 

God  makes  the  wars  of  the  outward  life  cease, 
so  that  as  life's  afternoon  comes  the  man  who 
had  fought  his  way  through  overwhelming  odds 
— as  a  reformer,  or  inventor,  or  philanthropist — 
spends  liis  years  amid  troops  of  friends  and  lov- 
ing recognition. 

God  makes  the  wars  of  the  home  cease,  so  that 
the  disturbing  elements  pass  out,  or  are  trans- 
muted by  invincible  patience  and  love. 

God  makes  the  wars  of  the  heart  cease,  so 
that  Satan  no  longer  annoys.  The  storm  dies 
down,  and  the  river  which  makes  glad  the  city 
of  God  purls  quietly  through  the  soul.  Sen- 
nacherib and  his  vast  array  lie  as  the  leaves  of 
autumn,  silent  in  the  last  sleep. 

If  as  yet  God  has  not  made  your  wars  to 
cease,  it  is  because  He  knows  that  you  have  still 
strength  to  fight  on.  Do  not  faint  in  the  day  of 
battle.  Ponder  those  great  words  of  Cromwell : 
*'  Call  not  your  burden  sad  or  heavy,  for  if  your 
Heavenly  Father  sent  it  (or  permitted  it)  He  in- 
tended it  to  be  neither."  It  is  through  the  fight 
that  you  are  winning  experience,  strength,  the 
approval  of  your  Captain,  and  the  crown. 
^  46. 


Ve  sJiall  choose  our  inheritance  for  us. 

Fsa.  xlvii.  4, 

"CHOOSE  for  us,  our  Father."  We  say  it 
deliberately.  If  He  were  to  give  us  our  choice 
at  this  moment,  though  there  is  no  one  of  us  that 
does  not  cherish  a  secret  longing  too  deep  for 
words,  we  would  put  it  back  into  His  hand  and 
say,  "Thou  knowest  better  than  words  can  tell 
Thee  what  lies  closest  to  our  soul,  but  we  dare 
not  take  the  opportunity  of  snatching  at  it ;  Thou 
wilt  give  it  or  its  equivalent  in  the  sweetest  form 
and  at  the  most  opportune  hour."  Would  not 
this  be  the  wisest  attitude  for  any  one  of  us  to 
assume,  believing,  as  we  do,  that  our  Father's 
wisdom  is  only  outshone  by  His  love? 

Wilt  thou,  O  soul  of  man,  standing  at  the  foot 
of  the  Hill  of  God,  ask  thy  Father  to  choose  the 
track  ?  He  knows  thy  strength  and  powers  of 
endurance  ;  He  knows  also  thy  ardent  yearning 
for  the  best.  Subordinate  thy  choice  to  His  in 
all  things.  Then,  whatever  the  difficulties  may 
prove  to  be,  dare  to  believe  that  they  are  less 
than  any  that  would  have  opposed  thee  hadst 
thou  chosen  the  route  for  thyself.  Never  look 
back ;  never  doubt  thy  Father's  personal  inter- 
est ;  the  clouds  that  sweep  darkly  over  thy  path 
may  hide  Him  from  thee,  but  not  thee  from 
Him. 

And  thou,  who  hast  had  much  experience  of 
God,  wilt  thou  not  still  say.  He  shall  choose? 
Thou  canst  not  repent  the  trust  which  thou  re- 
posedst  years  ago  in  His  selection.  Thou  wilt 
not  withdraw  thy  confidence.  Forevermore, 
whatever  life  may  bring  here  or  hereafter,  we 
will  cry.  He  shall  choose.  He  shall  choose.  As 
Nicholas  Herman  said  :  "  Pains  and  sufferings 
would  be  a  paradise  to  me  which  I  should  suffer 
with  my  God ;  and  the  greatest  pleasures  hell,  if 
I  could  relish  them  without  Him." 
47 


Traverse  her  palaces. 

Psa.  xlviii,  13  (r.  v.). 

THE  pious  Jew  broke  into  exclamations  as  he 
considered  the  beloved  city  of  his  fathers.  Beau- 
tiful for  situation,  the  joy  of  the  whole  earth.  In 
proud  confidence  he  challenged  the  world  of  men 
to  walk  about  Zion,  count  her  towers,  and  mark 
her  bulwarks.  Finally  they  were  to  traverse  her 
palaces.  But  what  Jerusalem  was  to  the  Jews, 
God's  loving-kindness  is  to  us,  as  we  think  of  it, 
in  the  midst  of  His  temple.  Let  us  consider  its 
beauty  and  joy,  its  strength  and  glory.  "How 
great  is  His  goodness,  and  how  great  is  His 
beauty !  " 

Traverse  the  rooms  in  the  Palace  of  God's  love 
— that  council-chamber  of  the  eternal  foreknowl- 
edge where  we  were  chosen  in  Christ ;  this  suite 
of  apartments,  which  began  with  the  unrobing- 
room  of  Bethlehem,  and  ended  with  the  golden 
stairway  of  Olivet;  those  mansions  of  the  Home- 
land which  He  is  preparing  for  them  that  love 
Him;  the  pavilion  whither  He  will  lead  His 
bride  where  He  comes  to  take  her  to  Himself: 
then  look  onward  to  the  new  heaven  and  the  new 
earth,  where  God  shall  spread  His  tabernacle 
over  His  people,  and  all  our  loftiest  ideals  will 
be  realized  forevermore. 

Life  is  a  traversing  of  the  successive  rooms  of 
the  Palace  of  Love.  They  are  not  alike  :  each 
has  its  own  beauty ;  each  leads  to  something  bet- 
ter; in  each  God  is  All.  Some  seem  to  pass 
through  the  rooms  veiled  or  blind ;  others  miss 
seeing  the  King.  But  those  who  dare  to  look  for 
Him  everywhere,  find  Him.  Always  our  Christ 
forever  and  ever ;  always  our  Guide  even  unto 
death,  and  beyond.  Always  the  present  opening 
to  something  better,  as  the  rosebud  to  the  rose ; 
as  the  acorn  to  the  oak ;  as  the  chrysalis  to  the 
butterfly. 

48 


Wherefore  should  I  fear  in  the  days  of  evil? 

Psa.  xlix.  jr. 

HAVE  I  not  God  ?  At  sundry  times  and  in 
divers  manners,  He  spake  to,  and  succored  His 
saints.  Will  He  not  come  to  me,  and  cast  around 
me  the  soft  mantle  of  His  protecting  love  ?  And 
if  I  love  Him,  do  I  need  any  beside  ? 

«  Who  that  one  moment  has  the  least  descried  Him, 
Dimly  and  faintly,  hidden  and  afar, 
Doth  not  despise  all  excellence  beside  Him, 

Pleasures  and  powers  that  are  not,  and  that  are  ?  " 

Did  He  not  walk  with  Enoch,  and  then  take 
him  home,  before  the  deluge  came?  Did  He 
not  shut  Noah  in,  with  His  own  hand,  that  there 
should  be  no  jeopardy  from  the  overflowing 
flood  ?  Did  He  not  assure  Abram  that  He  was 
his  shield  and  exceeding  great  reward,  quieting 
his  fears  against  any  possible  combination  of 
foes?  Did  He  not  preserve  His  servant  Moses 
from  the  fury  of  Pharaoh  and  the  murmurings  of 
Israel  ?  Was  not  Elijah  hidden  in  the  secret  of 
His  pavilion  from  the  wrath  of  Ahab?  Did  He 
not  send  His  angel  to  shut  the  lions'  mouths  that 
they  might  not  hurt  Daniel  ?  Were  not  the  coals 
of  the  burning  fiery  furnace  as  sweet  and  soft  as 
forest  glades  to  the  feet  of  the  three  young  con- 
fessors? Has  God  ever  forsaken  those  that 
trusted  Him?  Has  He  ever  given  them  over  to 
the  will  of  their  enemies? 

Wherefore,  then,  should  /  fear  in  the  day  of 
evil?  I  may  be  standing  on  the  deck,  whilst  the 
ship  is  beset  by  icebergs  and  jagged  splintered 
rocks;  the  fog  drapes  everything,  as  the  way 
slowly  opens  through  this  archipelago  of  peril : 
but  God  is  at  the  helm — why  should  I  fear? 
Days  of  evil  to  others  cannot  be  so  to  me,  for 
the  presence  of  God  transmutes  the  evil  to 
good. 

49 


Our  God  shall  come, 

Psa.  I.  3. 

THE  years  pass  as  snowflakes  on  the  river; 
and  as  each  drops  into  the  mighty  past,  it  cries, 
God  will  come !  Each  Advent  season,  with  its 
cluster  of  services,  herald-voices,  reminiscences 
and  anticipations,  lifts  the  message  clear  above 
the  turmoil  and  tumult  of  mankind,  God  will 
come  !  The  disappointments  of  our  fairest  hopes, 
the  overcasting  of  our  sunrises,  the  failures  of  our 
politicians,  statesmen,  and  counsellors,  to  effect 
a  permanent  and  radical  improvement  of  man's 
nature,  all  take  up  the  word,  Our  God  shall 
come ! 

«*  Surely  He  cometh,  and  a  thousand  voices 

Call  to  the  saints  and  to  the  deaf  and  dumb; 
Surely  He  cometh,  and  the  earth  rejoices. 

Glad  in  His  coming,  who  hath  sworn,  I  come." 

Dear  heart,  get  thee  often  to  thine  oriel 
window,  and  look  out  for  the  breaking  of  the 
day.  Did  not  the  Master  assure  us  that  He 
would  soon  return?  Hearken,  He  saith  again 
to-day,  "Surely  I  come  quickly."  The  little 
while  will  soon  be  over,  and  He  will  come  first 
to  receive  His  saints  to  Himself,  and  afterward 
to  come  with  them  to  the  earth.  Why  are  we 
disconsolate  and  dismayed  ?  The  perplexities  of 
the  Eastern  problem,  the  gradual  return  of  the 
Jews  to  Palestine,  the  despair  and  lawlessness  of 
men,  the  unrest  of  nations,  the  preparedness  on 
the  part  of  the  Church — like  so  many  minute 
guns  at  night — keep  the  heart  awake.  Oh,  let 
your  eyes  flash  with  the  glow  of  thanksgiving  ! 
Be  glad  and  strong,  confident  and  calm.  Let 
your  loins  be  girded,  and  your  lamps  burning. 
Through  heaven's  spaces  you  shall  detect  the  ad- 
vent of  your  God ;  and  when  He  comes  He  will 
break  the  silence  of  the  ages  with  words  of 
majesty  and  might. 

60 


Renew  a  steadfast  spirit  within  me. 

Psa.  li.  10  (R.  v.,  marg.'). 

PERHAPS  that  is  our  chiefest  need  :  especially 
so  as  we  gird  up  our  loins  for  a  new  stretch  of 
pilgrimage.  We  do  not  need  nobler  ideals.  They 
flash  over  our  souls.  We  read  of  Browning  kiss- 
ing, on  each  anniversary  of  his  wedding,  the  steps 
by  which  his  bride  went  to  the  marriage  altar ; 
and  we  vow  to  lift  our  wedded  life  higher.  We 
read  of  Henry  Martyn  mourning  that  he  had  de- 
voted too  much  time  to  public  work,  and  too 
little  to  private  communion  with  God;  and  we 
vow  to  pray  more.  We  recall  the  motto  written 
on  Green  the  historian's  grave  at  Mentone,  "He 
died  learning  "  ;  and  we  vow  that  each  day  shall 
see  some  lesson  learned  from  the  great  store  of 
Truth.  We  read  those  noble  words  of  W.  C. 
Burns,  '*0h  to  have  a  martyr's  heart,  if  not  a 
martyr's  crown  "  ;  and  we  vow  to  give  ourselves 
absolutely  to  witness  and  suffer  for  Jesus.  But, 
alas  !  our  ideals  fade  within  a  few  hours,  and  the 
withered  petals  are  all  that  remain.  We  need 
the  steadfast  spirit. 

But  this  God  can  give  us  by  His  Holy  Spirit. 
He  can  renew  our  will  from  day  to  day,  and  in- 
fuse into  us  His  own  unaltering,  unalterable  pur- 
pose. He  can  make  possible,  obedience  to  the 
apostolic  injunction,  "Be  ye  steadfast,  unmov- 
able,  always  abounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord." 
Hear  what  comfortable  words  the  Apostle  Peter 
saith  :  "The  God  of  all  grace,  who  called  you 
unto  His  eternal  glory  in  Christ,  after  that  ye 
have  suffered  a  little  while,  shall  Himself  restore, 
stablish,  and  settle  you."  Then  we  shall  move 
resolutely  and  unfalteringly  onward  ;  like  Colum- 
bus, undaunted  by  discouragement,  we  shall 
cross  unknown  seas,  till  the  scent  of  the  land 
we  seek  is  wafted  across  the  brief  intervening 
distance. 

51 


/  am  like  a  green  olive  tree  in  the  house  of  God. 

Fsa.  Hi.  S. 

IN  its  dress  of  evergreen,  the  olive  is  at  all 
times  a  beautiful  object.  Many  reasons  demand 
that  we  should  resemble  it.  There  are  three 
ways  of  becoming  like  a  green  olive  tree,  men- 
tioned in  this  and  the  following  verses : — 

Trust  in  the  mercy  of  God. — To  trust  when 
the  light  has  burned  to  its  socket  in  the  house  of 
life,  and  the  heart  is  as  lonely  as  Job's  amid  the 
wreck  of  his  home.  To  believe  that  the  mercy 
of  God  is  not  clear  gone,  nor  His  tender  mercies 
have  failed.  To  know  that  all  is  well,  that  seems 
most  ill.     This  keeps  the  heart  from  withering. 

Thanksgiving. — "I  will  give  thee  thanks  for- 
ever." There  is  always  something  to  thank  God 
for.  When  some  one  condoled  with  the  old 
slave  woman,  because  she  had  only  two  teeth 
left,  she  rephed,  quickly,  *'But  I  thank  Him, 
honey,  all  the  time,  that  they  are  opposite  each 
other."  Find  out  with  Paul  something  to  be 
happy  about,  even  when  arraigned  before  a  judge, 
on  trial  for  your  life.  **I  think  myself  happy, 
King  Agrippa." 

IVaititig  on  God. — Not  always  talking  to  Him 
or  about  Him,  but  waiting  before  Him,  till  the 
stream  runs  clear ;  till  the  cream  rises  to  the  top ; 
till  the  mists  part,  and  the  soul  regains  its  equi- 
librium. This  keeps  the  soul  calm  and  still. 
The  name  of  God  is  good,  a  wholesome  theme 
for  meditation,  because  it  includes  His  nature. 
To  meditate  on  it  is  soul-quieting  and  elevating. 
O  troubled  one,  get  away  to  some  quiet  spot  and 
wait  on  God  !  Look  away  from  the  wind  and 
waves  to  the  face  of  Jesus.  The  Divine  Name 
is  written  on  those  dear  features;  and  heaven 
looks  forth  from  those  true,  deep,  tender  eyes. 
The  house  of  God  is  a  safe  and  sheltered  place 
for  His  olive-trees ! 

.  52 


God  hrino^eth  hack  the  captmty  of  His  people. 

Fsa.  liii.  6. 

IT  is  wonderful  to  notice  the  many  ways  in 
which  God  brings  us  back  to  Himself.  We  may 
have  been  carried  into  captivity  by  a  troop  of 
anxieties  or  a  horde  of  worries ;  by  temptations 
like  the  sons  of  Anak;  by  pride  and  other  evils, 
as  when  David  found  that  the  Amalekites  had 
carried  off  his  belongings  into  captivity.  Then 
God  comes  to  the  rescue:  sometimes  by  a  draw- 
ing felt  throughout  the  soul;  sometimes  by  a 
little  word  dropped  by  another;  sometimes  by 
an  incident  from  a  biography.  Any  one  of  these 
acts  upon  us  as  the  sunbeams  on  frost — there  is  a 
meeting  and  yielding,  a  desire  to  get  alone,  con- 
fession of  waywardness  and  wandering,  and  ear- 
nest petitions  for  renewal  of  the  blessed  past. 
Thus  God  bringeth  back  the  captivity  of  His 
people. 

Are  you  a  captive,  pining  in  some  distant 
bondage?  It  is  not  surprising  that  you  hang 
your  harp  upon  the  willows,  and  weep  as  you  re- 
member Zion — how  you  went  with  the  throng, 
and  even  led  them  to  the  House  of  God,  with 
the  voice  of  joy  and  praise.  And  as  you  con- 
trast the  past  and  the  present,  it  is  well  that  your 
soul  is  cast  down.  But  when  the  Lord  brings 
again  your  captivity,  Jacob  shall  rejoice,  and 
Israel  shall  be  glad. 

Would  it  not  be  well  to  look  out  for  your 
brother  Lot  if  he  has  been  carried  off  down  the 
long  Jordan  Plain  ?  Should  you  not  arm  and  go 
to  his  rescue,  as  Abraham  did?  Perhaps  the 
Lord  would  turn  your  captivity,  if  you  sought  to 
turn  the  captivity  of  others;  and  Melchizedek 
would  meet  you  with  the  bread  and  wine. 

"  O  my  God ! 
Draw  me  still  nearer,  closer  unto  Thee, 
Till  all  the  hollow  of  these  deep  desires 
May  with  Thyself  be  filled !  " 

53 


Save  me,  O  God,  hy  Thy  Name.   .   .   .  He  hath 
delivered  me  out  of  all  trouble.  Psa.  liv.  i,  y. 

THERE  are  only  seven  stanzas  in  this  psalm. 
It  is  one  of  the  briefer  of  David's  compositions. 
Written  when  the  Ziphites  told  of  David's  hid- 
ing-place and  compelled  him  to  shift  his  quarters, 
perhaps  its  brevity  attests  some  hasty  moment 
snatched  from  the  hurry  and  bustle  of  the  neces- 
sary flight.  It  is  said  that  Mr.  Gladstone  made 
his  memorable  Latin  version  of  "  Rock  of  Ages  " 
during  an  interval  of  a  House  of  Commons  de- 
bate. It  is  worthy  of  remark  that,  however 
hurried  David  might  have  been,  and  however 
great  the  responsibility  resting  upon  him,  he 
found  time  to  turn  to  God  for  help.  He  had 
learned  the  secret  of  abiding  in  the  Divine  Pres- 
ence. 

It  is  said  of  one,  "He  was  so  accustomed  to 
the  Divine  Presence  that  he  received  from  it 
continual  succor  upon  all  occasions.  It  was  his 
continual  care  to  be  always  with  God,  and  to  do 
nothing,  say  nothing,  which  should  endanger 
the  perpetual  intercourse."  But  obviously,  this 
frame  of  mind  depended  on  a  previous  dedica- 
tion of  himself  as  a  freewill  offering  to  God. 
There  must  be  no  division  of  interests,  if  God  is 
to  be  all.  You  must  consider  yourself  as  a  stone 
before  a  carver,  whereof  he  is  to  make  a  statue 
— presenting  yourself  before  Him  that  He  may 
make  His  perfect  image  in  you  and  do  as  He 
will  with  your  life.  You  must  realize  that  He 
has  permitted  this  interruption  of  your  peace, 
this  intrusion  of  Ziphite  hate.  You  must  look 
beyond  the  hand  that  smites,  to  the  Father  who 
permits.  Then  the  soul  will  rock  itself  to  rest ; 
and  before  you  have  been  five  minutes  with  God 
you  will  be  able  to  say  as  David,  "He  hath  de- 
livered me."  Be  of  good  cheer;  rest  on  His 
Name ;  He  will  deliver  you  out  of  all  trouble. 
54 


Cast  thy  burden  upon  the  Lord. 

Fsa.  Iv.  22» 

WE  all  know  the  story  of  the  man  wearily 
trudging  along  the  road  with  the  burden  on  his 
back,  to  whom  a  friend  offered  a  lift  in  his  cart. 
To  the  latter's  surprise  the  wayfarer  sat  beside 
him  with  his  burden  still  strapped  to  his  shoul- 
der. "Why  do  you  not  put  your  burden 
down?"  quoth  he.  ''Thank  you/'  was  the 
reply,  ''I  am  so  obliged  at  your  carrying  me 
that  I  will  not  trouble  you  with  my  burden  also." 
And  so  he  hugged  it  still.  How  many  a  child 
of  God  trusts  Him  with  his  soul,  but  not  with 
his  load !  Yet  if  God  has  undertaken  the 
greater,  surely  He  may  be  trusted  with  the  less. 
If  He  has  borne  thy  sins,  He  can  surely  carry 
thy  sorrows. 

Thy  burden,  as  the  margin  suggests,  is  ''that 
which  He  hath  given  thee."  Whatever  it  be — 
the  weight  of  a  church,  the  pressure  of  a  family, 
the  burden  of  other  souls — thy  Father  hath  given 
it  thee.  Give  its  pressure  back  to  Him,  whilst 
thou  retainest  the  salutary  lesson  of  hourly  pa- 
tience and  faith.  God  imposes  burdens,  to  see 
what  we  will  do  with  them.  We  may  carry 
them  to  our  undoing,  or  we  may  cast  them  on 
Him  for  His  blessed  countenance. 

"  Oh  for  the  faith  to  cast  our  load, 
E'en  while  we  pray,  upon  our  God, 
Then  rise  with  lightened  cheer." 

Notice,  that  if  we  cast  our  burden,  we  must 
believe  He  takes  it.  We  must  definitely  leave  it 
with  Him,  and  count  as  a  positive  sin  the  temp- 
tation to  reconsider  it.  When  you  cast  your 
burden,  God  will  take  it,  and  will  do  more.  He 
will  sustain  you.  He  will  catch  up  your  burden 
and  you,  and  bear  you  all  the  day  long  between 
His  shoulders. 

55 


Thou  hast  delivered :   .  .  .  wilt  not   Thou  de. 
liver  ?  Psa.  Ivi.  13. 

IT  has  been  a  wonderful  deliverance  !  The 
blood  and  righteousness  of  Christ  have  satisfied 
the  demands  of  a  holy  law.  Into  our  souls,  dead 
in  trespasses  and  sins,  He  has  poured  the  power 
of  an  endless  life.  The  very  life  of  God  Him- 
self has  become  resident  within  us,  through  the 
grace  of  the  one  Man,  Christ  Jesus.  We  cannot 
be  hurt  by  the  second  death.  We  have  eaten  of 
the  flesh,  and  drunk  of  the  blood  of  the  Son  of 
Man,  and  ours  is  the  everlasting  life.  Death  and 
the  grave  forever  behind  us,  whilst  before  is  the 
city,  whose  streets  are  never  shadowed  by  death 
or  crying. 

And  will  not  God  finish  what  He  has  begun  ? 
Has  He  given  us  life,  and  will  He  not  give  us  all 
that  is  necessary  for  right  and  holy  living  ?  Does 
not  the  one  necessarily  involve  the  other,  as  the 
gift  of  the  body  involves  the  bestowment  of  food 
and  clothing?  Have  we  been  saved  by  Christ's 
death  ?  Shall  we  not  also  be  saved  by  His  life? 
Will  it  not  be  for  the  glory  of  God  that  we 
should  walk  worthy  of  the  high  calling?  Trust 
Him,  child  of  God,  whatever  the  traps  and  pit- 
falls, whatever  the  slipperiness  and  difficulty  of 
keeping  a  foothold  ;  believe  that  He  is  able  to 
keep  you  from  stumbling,  and  that  His  ability  is 
only  exceeded  by  His  love.  Let  your  Guide 
bind  you  by  a  strong  rope  to  Himself  as  you 
start  each  morning  in  His  company. 

The  answer  to  these  reasonings,  the  fulfillment 
of  our  hopes,  comes  back  to  us  from  a  verse  in 
Rom.  v.,  as  rendered  by  combining  the  sugges- 
tions of  Dr.  Moule,  and  of  Conybeare  and 
Howson,  '*If,  when  we  were  enemies,  we  were 
reconciled  to  God  by  the  death  of  His  Son, 
much  more,  being  already  recojiciled,  we  shall 
be  kept  safe  by  sharing  in  His  life." 
56 


God  perfornuth  all  things  for  me. 

Psa.  Ivii.  2. 

IT  seemed  to  David  that  he  was  condemned  to 
spend  his  days  in  a  lion's  den  ;  on  every  side 
were  blasphemy  and  reproach ;  his  enemies 
breathed  out  flames,  and  their  slanders  cut  like 
swords.  But  amid  it  all  he  steadily  looked  away 
to  God,  the  Most  High,  who  from  His  elevation 
would  reach  down  to  deliver,  and  would  surely 
accomplish  all  that  was  necessary.  It  is  a  mar- 
vellous thing  to  consider  that  God  is  literally 
willing  to  perform  all  things  in  us,  and  for  us,  if 
only  we  will  let  Him.  The  mischief  is  that  most 
of  us  insist  on  performing  all  things  in  the 
energy  of  our  own  resolve,  in  the  strength  of  our 
own  power.  We  shut  God  out  of  our  life  :  and 
whilst  He  is  coming  to  our  help,  we  have  forced 
ourselves,  and  offered  the  sacrifice  to  our  own 
hurt. 

Before,  therefore,  God  will  perform  all  things 
for  us,  as  He  did  for  His  servant,  we  must  learn, 
like  him,  to  wait  in  His  presence  that  He  may 
teach  us  our  absolute  poverty  and  helplessness ; 
that  He  may  assure  us  of  our  need  of  absolute 
and  unceasing  dependence :  that  He  may  open 
our  eyes  to  see  the  well-spring  which  Hagar  saw 
on  the  desert  sand.  The  fixed  heart  (ver.  7), 
fixed  only  upon  God,  set  upon  waiting  His  time, 
receiving  His  help,  and  doing  all  things  accord- 
ing to  the  inspiration  and  energy  of  His  Spirit, 
is  absolutely  essential. 

Awake  the  dawn,  O  child  of  God  (8).  Give 
thanks  to  God  :  sing  His  praises  (9) :  let  thy  as- 
piration be  for  His  exaltation  (5,  11):  let  thy 
heart  be  fixed  in  its  resolve  to  take  deliverance 
from  none  other — and  He  will  send  forth  His 
twin-angels,  Mercy  and  Truth  (3).  They  will 
come,  even  into  the  lion's  den,  and  save  thee 
from  those  who  would  swallow  thee  up  (4). 
57 


Verily  there  is  a  God  that  judgeth  in  the  earth. 

Psa.  Iviii.  ii  (R.  v.). 

THIS  is  one  of  the  imprecatory  psalms,  and 
some  are  seriously  disturbed  with  what  seems  an 
unforgiving  spirit  on  the  part  of  the  psalmist. 
We  must  remember,  however,  that  he  was  brought 
up  in  a  severer  school  than  ours.  The  cliffs  of 
Sinai  are  sterner  than  the  undulations  of  the 
mountain  of  Beatitudes.  He  was  impressed 
more  by  the  righteousness  and  less  by  the  love  of 
God  than  we  are.  The  true  key  to  the  solution 
of  the  difficulty  which  these  words  suggest  is  in 
the  words  quoted  above,  which  show  His  zeal  for 
the  character  of  Jehovah. 

We  must  remember  that  the  great  conflict  of 
His  time  was — why  the  wicked  were  permitted  to 
flourish.  Their  success  seemed  to  suggest  that 
God  was  indifferent  to  sin.  The  book  of  Job  is 
filled  with  controversy  on  the  same  theme:  its 
chapters  are  filled  with  reasonings  how  God  could 
be  just,  and  allow  the  wicked  to  prosper,  whilst 
the  righteous  suffered  sore  affliction.  The  psalm- 
ist, therefore,  pleads  that  the  wicked  should  be 
taken  away  with  a  whirlwind,  that  men  may  be 
compelled  to  admit  that  there  is  a  God  that 
judgeth.  Let  wicked  men  be  put  to  shame  and 
punished,  then  surely  men  will  seek  after  right- 
eousness because  of  the  immunity  it  secures  and 
the  blessedness  it  offers. 

Yes,  child  of  God,  there  is  a  reward  for  thee. 
It  is  not  in  vain  that  thou  hast  washed  thy  hands 
in  innocency.  But  it  will  not  come  in  the  coin- 
age or  honor  of  this  age,  else  it  would  be  evanes- 
cent and  perishable.  God  is  already  giving  thee 
of  the  eternal  and  divine — peace,  joy,  blessed- 
ness ;  and  one  day  thou  shalt  be  fully  vindicated. 

"  Perhaps  the  cup  was  broken  here 
That  Heaven's  new  wine  might  show  more  clear." 

58 


O  my  Strength ^  I  will  wait  upon  Thee.      Unto 
Thee  will  I  sing  praises.  Psa.  Ux.  9,  77. 

IN  the  R.  V.  this  contrast  comes  out  in  exquisite 
beauty.  First,  the  soul  waits  upon  God,  its 
strength;  and  then  to  Him  who  had  been  its 
strength,  it  breaks  into  praise. 

Notice  the  circumstances  in  which  this  psalm 
was  composed.  Around  the  house  lurk  Saul's 
emissaries,  gathering  themselves  together  against 
him.  At  any  moment  they  threaten  to  break  in 
and  murder  him  upon  the  psalmist's  bed.  Michal 
and  he  are  reduced  to  their  last  straits,  yet  the 
hunted  man  finds  opportunity  to  wait  upon  God. 
It  is  not  that  he  asks  for  aught  as  a  definite  gift; 
but  he  waits  on  God  Himself,  still  expectant, 
eager.  There  are  times  when  we  cannot  tell  God 
what  He  should  do ;  we  can  only  hush  our  soul, 
as  a  mother  her  babe,  and  wait  patiently  until 
He  tells  us  what  He  has  prepared. 

Meditate  on  these  three  attributes.  He  is  the 
God  of  your  mercy,  the  Fountain  from  which 
pure  mercy  flows,  and  nothing  but  mercy ;  He  is 
your  High  Tower,  whom  you  may  put  between 
yourself  and  Saul's  hate;  He  is  your  Strength, 
not  that  you  receive  strength  from  Him,  but  that 
you  appropriate  Him  as  your  strength.  Stay  thus 
musing  and  resting,  until  in  that  very  house,  pent 
in  and  besieged,  you  shall  break  into  song,  sing- 
ing of  God's  strength,  singing  aloud  of  His 
mercy  in  the  morning. 

There  are  many  beleaguered  souls  in  the  world, 
who  have  learned  to  put  God  between  themselves 
and  their  besiegers,  and  to  sing  to  Him. 


"  For  the  glory  and  the  passion  of  this  midnight 

I  praise  Thy  Name,  I  give  Thee  thanks,  O  Christ  I 

Thou  hast  neither  failed  me  nor  forsaken 

Through  these  hard  hours  with  victory  overpriced; 

Now  that  I  too  of  Thy  passion  have  partaken, 

For  tlie  workl's  sake,  called — elected — sacrificed." 

59 


Oh,  restore  us  again  ! 

Fsa.  Ix.  I  (R.  v.). 

CAST  off!  There  is  a  sense  in  which  that  can 
never  be.  God  will  not  cast  off  from  salvation 
any  soul  of  man  that  has  sheltered  under  the 
covert  of  His  Almighty  wings.  He  may  with- 
draw the  sensible  enjoyment  and  realization  of  His 
presence ;  but  He  cannot  cast  off  forever,  in  the 
sense  of  consigning  any  fugitive  to  his  foes  or  to 
the  fate  he  dreads. 

And  yet  there  is  a  sense  in  which  we  are  cast 
off,  when  we  have  been  unbelieving  and  dis- 
obedient. Allowed  to  take  our  own  way,  that  we 
may  learn  its  bitterness;  permitted  to  hunger  and 
thirst,  that  we  may  know  how  evil  a  thing  it  is  to 
seek  our  supreme  good  anywhere  else  than  in 
God;  given  over  to  the  tender  mercies  of  the 
gods  we  have  chosen,  that  we  may  be  taught  their 
helplessness.  It  was  thus  that  God  cast  off  His 
people.  He  showed  them  hard  things,  and  al- 
lowed them  to  reap  as  they  had  sown. 

But  now  they  cry  for  restoration.  Put  us 
back,  they  say,  into  the  old  place ;  be  to  us  what 
Thou  wert,  and  make  us  to  Thee  as  we  were. 
Restore  us  again.  He  did  it  for  Peter,  putting 
him  back  to  the  front  place  in  the  Apostolic 
band;  for  Mark,  allowing  him,  who  had  gone 
back  in  his  first  missionary  journey,  to  write  a 
Gospel ;  for  Cranmer  and  many  more,  who  in 
the  first  burst  of  fiery  trial  shrank  back,  but  to 
whom  He  gave  more  grace.  Believe  in  the  restor- 
ing grace  of  Christ,  who  not  only  forgives,  but 
puts  back  the  penitent  and  believing  soul  where  it 
was  before  it  fell  away.  Indeed,  it  has  been  sug- 
gested that  the  prodigal  fares  better  on  his  return 
than  those  who  do  not  go  astray.  It  is  not  really 
so.  But  there  is  much  music  and  song  when  the 
lost  is  found  and  the  dead  lives. 
60 


Lead  me  to  the  Rock  that  is  higher  than  I. 

Psa.  Ixi.  2, 

DAVID  is  in  the  wilderness,  fleeing  from 
Absalom.  It  seems  to  him  that  he  is  at  the  end 
of  the  earth.  ''Love  and  Longing  are  potent 
magnifiers  of  space."  His  soul  seems  wrapped 
in  gloom ;  then,  from  afar,  he  sees  the  Rock  of 
his  salvation,  and  asks  to  be  led  thither,  and  set 
thereon. 

Can  you  not  see  that  rock  ?  All  the  desert  is 
baking  like  a  furnace.  The  very  pebbles  burn  the 
hand  like  cinders.  Nothing  can  abide  the 
scorching  glare  but  the  little  green  lizards  that 
dart  to  and  fro  among  the  stones.  Sunbeams 
strike  like  swords  on  the  head  of  the  luckless 
travellers  that  dare  to  brave  their  glittering  edge. 
But  yonder  there  is  a  rock,  rising  high  above  the 
shimmering  sands,  and  casting  a  deep  black 
shadow  on  one  side.  Little  lichens  hide  in  its 
crevices,  streaks  of  vegetation  are  enamelled  on 
its  steep  surfaces,  and  at  its  foot  there  are  even  a 
few  rock- plants  growing  as  best  they  can  in  the 
arid  soil.  That  is  the  higher  rock — the  rock 
higher  than  the  traveller's  stature.  He  makes  for 
it ;  or  if  he  is  too  faint  and  overwhelmed,  he  is 
led  to  it,  and  beneath  its  gracious  shadow  finds 
instant  respite  and  repose.  The  shadow  of  a 
great  rock  in  a  weary  land  ! 

Jesus  will  be  all  this  to  thee,  dear  heart.  Thou 
hast  got  to  the  end  of  the  earth  and  of  thyself; 
call  out  to  Christ,  and  He  will  bring  thee,  faint 
and  ready  to  die,  to  Himself  as  the  Shadow  from 
the  heat.  The  Man  of  men  can  be  this  for  thee, 
because  He  is  higher  than  thou  art.  Higher 
than  I,  because  of  His  Divine  origin;  higher,  be- 
cause of  His  perfect  obedience  ;  higher,  because 
of  His  supreme  sufferings ;  higher,  because  of 
His  ascension  to  the  right  hand  of  power.  Yet 
His  side  is  scarred  and  cleft. 
61 


My  soul  7uaiteth  only  upon  God. 

Psa.  Ixii.  I  (R.  v.). 

DR.  KAY  gives  as  the  literal  translation ; 
*'  Only  toward  God  my  soul  is  in  silence  "  ;  or, 
"  Only  for  God  waits  my  soul  all  hushed."  The 
noises  of  contending  desires,  the  whispers  of 
earthly  hopes,  are  hushed  :  and  the  soul  listens. 

This  is  the  test  of  true  waiting.  Wait  before 
God  till  the  voices,  suggestions,  and  energies  of 
nature  become  silent.  Then  only  can  God  real- 
ize His  uttermost  of  salvation.  This  was  the 
secret  of  Abraham's  long  trial.  He  was  left 
waiting  till  nature  was  spent,  till  all  expedients 
proving  abortive  were  surrendered ;  till  all  that 
knew  him  pitied  him  for  clinging  to  an  impossible 
dream.  But  as  this  great  silence  fell  on  him,  the 
evidence  of  utter  helplessness  and  despair,  there 
arose  within  his  soul  an  ever-accumulating  faith 
in  the  power  of  God ;  and  there  was  no  obstacle 
to  prevent  God  realizing  all,  and  beyond  all,  be- 
cause all  the  glory  accrued  to  Himself. 

This  is  why  God  keeps  you  waiting.  All  that 
is  of  self  and  nature  must  be  silenced  ;  one  voice 
after  another  cease  to  boast ;  one  light  after  an- 
other be  put  out ;  until  the  soul  is  shut  up  to  God 
alone.  This  process  prevails  equally  in  respect  to 
salvation  from  penalty,  deliverance  from  the 
power  of  sin,  and  our  efforts  to  win  souls.  O  my 
soul,  be  silent  !  Hush  thee  !  Wait  thou  only 
upon  God  !  Surrender  thy  cherished  plans  and 
reliances.  Only  when  death  has  done  its  perfect 
work,  will  He  bestow  the  power  of  an  endless  (an 
indissoluble)  life. 

«  O  Lord,  my  God,  do  Thou  Thy  holy  will ! 

I  will  lie  still ! 
I  will  not  stir,  lest  I  forsake  Thine  arm, 

And  break  the  charm, 
Which  lulls  me,  clinging  to  my  Father's  breast 

In  perfect  rest." 

62 


My  soulfolloweth  hard  after  Thee. 

Psa.  Ixiii.  8. 

THIS  is  a  marvellous  saying.  Literally  ren- 
dered, the  words  are,  "cleaves  after  Thee" — 
contact  and  eager  pursuit.  The  metaphor  which 
underlies  it  is  obviously  borrowed  from  the 
psalmist's  familiarity  with  the  wilderness.  It  is 
a  dry  and  tliirsty  land,  where  no  water  is:  one 
says  that  he  knows  of  a  secret  spring,  whose 
waters  are  clear  and  cool,  and  offers  to  lead  the 
thirsty  one  to  its  margin,  lined  with  mosses  and 
grasses.  Instantly  the  soul  starts  in  pursuit,  and 
follows  hard  on  the  footsteps  of  the  pioneer. 

So  when  we  are  athirst  for  God,  He  comes, 
and,  in  the  person  of  Jesus,  leads  us  to  Himself. 
He  is  Guide  and  Guerdon,  Prompter  of  the  im- 
pulse, and  Promoter  of  its  satisfaction.  He  ex- 
cites the  desire,  offers  to  show  us  its  sufficient 
supply,  and  finally  brings  us  to  His  own  loving- 
kindness,  which  is  better  than  life.  It  becomes 
us,  then,  to  follow  hard  after  Him.  Let  us  do 
as  Jonathan's  armor-bearer,  to  whom  the  young 
prince  said,  Come  up  after  me.  And  Jonathan 
climbed  up  upon  his  hands  and  feet,  and  his 
armor-bearer  after  him,  and  the  Philistines  fell 
before  Jonathan,  and  his  armor-bearer  slew  after 
him. 

Follow  hard  after  Christ,  over  hedge  and 
ditch,  through  stubble  and  gorse,  across  dyke 
and  brook,  sometimes  down  the  steep  fall  into 
the  hollow,  and  again  breasting  the  mountain 
slope,  in  the  teeth  of  the  pitiless  blast.  He  has 
left  an  example  that  we  should  follow  His  steps. 
The  scent  lies  lightly;  catch  it  ere  it  fade. 
What  though  the  fresh  blood  marks  the  track — 
follow  hard  !  Follow  on  to  apprehend  that  for 
which  thou  wast  apprehended.  Press  toward 
the  mark.  Let  there  be  no  needless  space  be- 
tween the  Master  and  thee. 
63 


The  righteous  shall  he  glad  in  the  Lord. 

Psa.  Ixiv.  10. 

ARE  you  glad  in  your  Christian  life?  Glad- 
ness is  the  perquisite  of  children  and  childlike 
hearts,  and  there  is  nothing  which  is  more  dis- 
tinctively characteristic  of  the  work  of  grace  in 
the  heart  than  Christian  gladness.  The  world 
may  simulate  it,  but  it  is  conscious  of  its  dreary 
failure.  Often  faded  worldlings  will  come  to  the 
true  Christian,  saying,  What  is  the  secret  of  your 
perennial  gladness? 

The  glad  heart  is  conscious  of  the  love  of 
God  ;  knows  that  it  is  reconciled  through  the 
blood  of  the  cross;  realizes  that  there  is  nothing 
between  itself  and  the  light  of  the  Father's 
smile;  is  conscious  of  rectitude  in  intention  and 
tenderness  of  yearning  love  and  pity.  In  every 
difficult  circumstance  it  recognizes  the  Father's 
appointment ;  in  every  archipelago  of  rocks  it  is 
aware  of  the  presence  of  God  aboard  the  vessel, 
holding  the  helm  and  keeping  the  keel  in  the 
deepest  current. 

O  souls,  get  right  with  God  !  avail  yourselves 
of  the  perfect  righteousness  of  Christ;  watch 
that  there  be  nothing  between  you  and  Him; 
walk  in  the  light  as  He  is  in  the  light;  cultivate 
the  habit  of  considering  what  has  been  given 
rather  than  what  has  been  withheld — and  you 
will  find  that  He  will  make  you  glad  in  propor- 
tion to  the  days  in  which  He  has  afflicted  you, 
and  the  years  in  which  you  have  seen  evil.  The 
sad  heart  tires  in  a  mile.  The  glad  one  mounts 
up  with  wings  as  eagles.  After  his  vision  Jacob 
"  lifted  up  his  feet,  and  came  to  the  land  of  the 
children  of  the  East"  (Gen.  xxix.  i,  R.  v.). 

"  Oh  for  the  joy  Thy  presence  gives — 

What  peace  shall  reign  when  Thou  art  here ! 
Thy  presence  makes  this  den  of  thieves 
A  calm,  delightful  house  of  prayer." 

64 


Blessed  is  the  man  whom   Thou  choosest^  and 
causest  to  approach  unto  Thee.  Fsa.  Ixv.  4, 

I  WOULD  be  one  of  those  favored  ones,  my 
Saviour.  There  is  nothing  that  the  heart  can 
conceive,  which  is  to  be  compared  with  this 
blessedness.  The  light  of  nature,  the  joy  of 
friendship,  the  fascination  of  art  and  books,  can 
give  no  such  delight  as  this  approach  unto  Thee, 
this  dwelling  in  Thy  courts.  But  the  longer  I 
know  myself,  the  surer  I  am  that  Thou  must 
cause  me  to  approach,  that  Tho7i  must  put  forth 
extraordinary  means  for  making  me  dwell.  So 
cause  me  to  approach  that  I  may  dwell. 

When  thy  soul  has  put  up  such  a  prayer  as 
this,  be  sure  that  an  answer  will  come.  Thou 
mayest  be  brought  nigh  by  an  invisible  but  all- 
penetrating  attraction,  as  when  the  sun  draws  the 
earth,  or  the  magnet  the  needle  :  or  perhaps  God 
will  answer  thee  by  terrible  things  in  righteous- 
ness. There  will  be  deep  humiliations,  solemn 
heart-searchings,  sharp  crucifixions,  cherished 
purposes  thwarted,  the  keenest  pain,  the  most 
searching  fire.  But  through  all,  there  will  come 
a  growing  tenderness  and  desire. 

It  was  said  by  the  late  Mr.  Spurgeon  that  he 
was  not  conscious  of  spending  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  of  his  waking  moments  without  a  distinct 
recognition  of  the  presence  of  God.  And  this 
will  be  true  of  us  if  we  will  trust  the  great  High 
Priest  to  bring  us  within  the  vail,  and  keep  us 
there.  He  entered  that  we  may  enter.  He 
abides  that  we  may  abide.  He  stands  in  the 
Holiest  that  He  may  cause  us  to  have  a  place  of 
access  among  those  that  stand  before  the  face  of 
God.  The  anointing  which  we  receive  from 
Him  will  teach  us  how  to  abide.  This  may  well 
be  adopted  as  a  life-prayer  :  "  Cause  me  to  ap- 
proach, that  I  may  dwell  in  Thy  presence." 
65 


ThoUy  O  God,  hast  proved  us  ;   Thou  hast  tried 
us  as  silver  is  tried.  Psa.  Ixvi.  lo. 

SILVER  is  tried  by  fire,  and  the  heart  by  pain. 
**  We  went  through  fire."  But  in  the  fire  thou 
shalt  not  be  burned ;  only  thy  dross  shall  be  re- 
moved. The  smell  of  burning  shall  not  pass  upon 
thee,  for  the  form  of  the  Son  of  God  shall  be  at 
thy  side. 

"  Be  still,  and  He  shall  mould  thee  for  His  heritage  of 

rest; 
The  vessel  must  be  shapen  for  the  joys  of  Paradise. 
And  if  the  great  Refiner  in  furnaces  of  pain 
Would  do  His  work  more  truly,  count  all  His  dealings 

gain." 

The  main  end  of  our  life  is  not  to  doy  but  to 
become.  For  this  we  are  being  moulded  and  dis- 
ciplined each  hour.  You  cannot  understand  why 
year  after  year  the  stern  ordeal  is  perpetuated ; 
you  think  the  time  is  wasted ;  you  are  doing 
nothing.  Yes,  but  you  are  situated  in  the  set  of 
circumstances  that  gives  you  the  best  opportunity 
for  manifesting,  and  therefore  acquiring,  the  qual- 
ities in  which  your  character  is  naturally  deficient. 
And  the  Refiner  sits  patiently  beside  the  cru- 
cible, intent  on  the  process,  tempering  the  heat, 
and  eager  that  the  scum  should  pass  off,  and  His 
own  face  become  perfectly  reflected  in  the  surface. 

Only  be  satisfied,  with  Archbishop  Leighton, 
that  nothing  can  befall  thee  but  what  has  first 
passed  concerning  thee  in  the  courts  of  heaven. 
And  say  with  the  saintly  Fletcher:  **I  felt  the 
will  of  my  God  like  unto  a  soft  pillow,  upon 
which  I  could  lie  down  and  find  rest  and  safety 
in  all  circumstances.  Oh,  it  is  a  blessed  thing 
to  sink  into  the  will  of  God  in  all  things.  Abso- 
lute resignation  to  the  Divine  will  baffles  a  thou- 
sand temptations ;  confidence  in  our  Saviour  car- 
ries us  sweetly  through  a  thousand  trials." 
66 


God  shall  bless  us  ;  and  all  the  ends  of  the  earth 
shall  fear  Him.  Fsa.  Ixvii.  7. 

THIS  psalm  is  full  of  yearnings  for  the  salva- 
tion of  mankind.  The  selfish  desire  for  the  ex- 
clusive blessing  of  the  chosen  people  is  lost  sight 
of  in  the  catholic  yearning  that  all  the  earth 
should  fear  Jehovah.  Indeed,  this  is  the  ground 
on  which  the  psalmist  rests  his  personal  claim  for 
the  Divine  blessing.  It  is  as  though  he  said, 
**We  only  ask  for  gifts  of  grace,  that  through  us 
they  may  be  transmitted  to  all  mankind."  Turn 
us  again,  O  God,  that  times  of  refreshing  may 
come  from  Thy  presence  to  all  men  ;  our  one  de- 
sire is  that  the  peoples  may  praise  Thee. 

We  are  reminded  of  those  noble  words  of  An- 
drew Fuller,  to  whom  the  initiation  of  modern 
missions  to  the  heathen  is  so  largely  due:  "We 
met  and  prayed  for  the  heathen.  We  were  drawn 
out  of  ourselves.  God  blessed  us  while  we  tried 
to  be  a  blessing.  Our  hearts  were  enlarged,  and 
we  were  baptized  into  a  deeper  sympathy  with 
the  soul-saving  purposes  of  the  Redeemer." 

Are  we  infected  with  this  noble  passion  ?  Do 
we  echo  from  our  hearts  the  repeated  prayer  of 
this  psalm  :  '*  Let  all  the  peoples  praise  Thee  "  ? 
Do  we  ask  for  blessing  from  our  own  God,  that 
we  may  be  able  to  be  a  greater  blessing  to  others? 
It  is  because  God  is  ''  our  own  God,"  that  we  are 
so  anxious  to  make  Him  known.  Oh  that  we 
might  be  carried  out  to  sea  on  the  tide  of  God's 
purposes,  and  yearnings,  and  pity;  and  long  as 
the  psalmist  did  that  his  saving  health  might  be 
known  among  all  nations  ! 

"Whoso  hath  felt  the  Spirit  of  the  Highest, 

Cannot  confound,  nor  doubt  Him,  nor  deny ; 
Yea,  with  one  voice,  O  world,  though  thou  deniest, 
Stand  thou  on  that  side,  for  on  this  am  I." 

67 


Blessed  he  the  Lord,  who  daily  beareth  our  bur- 
den. Fsa.  Ixviii.  ig  (R.  v.). 

NEVER  tired  or  out  of  patience,  that  mighty 
God,  of  whose  advent  the  psalmist  is  so  full,  daily- 
bends  beneath  our  burdens,  and  sets  Himself  to 
help  us  through  crushing  difficulties.  They  are 
unbearable  to  us,  but  to  Him  only  a  very  little 
thing.  If  He  taketh  up  the  isles  as  a  very  little 
thing,  surely  your  heaviest  burden  must  be  less. 

But  our  mistake  is  that  we  do  not  realize  that 
God  is  bearing  our  burdens.  We  think  that  we 
must  cope  with  them ;  we  let  ourselves  worry,  as 
though  we  were  the  loneliest,  most  deserted,  most 
pitiable  beings  in  existence,  when  all  the  while 
God  is  going  beside,  ready  to  bear  our  burdens. 
The  burden  of  our  sins ;  of  our  anxieties  about 
ourselves,  and  about  others ;  of  our  frailties  and 
infirmities ;  the  responsibility  of  keeping  us ;  the 
pressure  of  our  daily  need — all  these  rest  daily  on 
our  God. 

"  'Tis  enough  that  He  should  care ; 
Why  should  we  the  burden  bear !  " 

Oh,  do  not  carry  your  burdens  for  a  single 
moment  longer;  pass  them  over  to  Him  who  has 
already  taken  your  eternal  interests  to  His  heart. 
Only  be  patient,  and  wait  on  Him,  and  do  not 
run  to  and  fro  seeking  for  help  from  man,  or 
making  men  your  consolers  and  confidants. 
Those  who  do  this  have  their  reward.  But  as 
for  you,  anoint  your  head  and  wash  your  face, 
so  as  not  to  excite  the  pity  of  others.  *'  Cast  thy 
burden  on  the  Lord,  and  He  will  sustain  thee." 
But,  when  it  has  been  cast,  leave  it  with  Him. 
Refuse  to  yield  to  anxious  suggestions,  and  forth- 
with burst  out  into  a  song  of  thankful  confidence. 
Bless  Him  !  Praise  Him  !  Be  glad,  and  rejoice  ! 
When  the  heart  is  lightened  of  its  load,  it  will 
soar. 

68 


Save  me,  O  God :  for  the  waters  are  come  in 
unto  my  soul.  Psa.  Ixix.  i. 

MATTERS  sometimes  become  desperate.  For 
days  the  waters  have  been  out  on  the  low-lying 
lands,  and  slowly  rising  against  the  embankment, 
in  the  shelter  of  which  some  house  is  situated. 
Now,  however,  they  have  undermined  and  swept 
it  away.  With  a  crash  it  has  fallen  into  the  yel- 
low foaming  waters.  A  moment's  agitation,  and 
then  not  a  trace  of  it.  There  is  nothing  now  to 
keep  back  the  flood,  and  it  comes  into  the  home, 
rising  stealthily  up  the  walls.  In  the  life  of  the 
soul  such  a  crisis  comes  not  unfrequently.  You 
have  dreaded  something,  and  the  cold  chill  of 
fear  has  cast  a  shudder  over  you ;  but  surely  it 
could  never  come  \.o  you  /  There  is  that  protec- 
tion, that  barrier,  of  position,  money,  wealthy 
friends.  But  one  by  one  these  are  swept  aside, 
and  the  waters  come  ever  nearer,  till  there  is 
nothing  between  them  and  the  soul.  They  come 
in  unto  the  soul. 

It  is  well  for  a  man  to  be  able  then  to  turn  to 
God  with  the  "  Save  me  "  of  the  psalmist.  God 
must  have  the  entire  trust  of  our  soul.  He  takes 
away  all  that  lies  between  Him  and  us,  that  we 
may  hang  on  Him,  and  lie  naked  and  open  to 
Him  in  our  utter  helplessness.  From  the  midst 
of  your  sorrows,  from  the  deep  sin  in  which  you 
are  sinking,  from  the  deep  waters  that  overflow 
you,  cry  to  God.  He  knows  your  foolishness; 
your  sins  are  not  hid  from  Him.  He  will 
stretch  out  His  right  hand  and  catch  you,  say- 
ing, "O  thou  of  little  faith,  wherefore  didst 
thou  doubt?"  Then  our  crying  and  tears  will 
be  turned  to  joyous  shouts.  We  shall  praise  the 
name  of  God  with  a  song,  and  magnify  Him 
with  thanksgiving;  for  the  Lord  heareth  the 
needy,  and  despiseth  not  His  prisoners  (30, 
33)- 


Make  haste  ti7ito  me,  O  God! 

Psa.  Ixx.  J. 

<<MAKE  haste!"  Our  frail  patience  gives 
out  full  often.  We  think  that  God  is  never  com- 
ing. So  many  clays  I  have  waited  for  Thee,  and 
as  yet  there  has  not  been  one  symptom  of  Thine 
approach.  Why  are  Thy  chariots  so  tardy? 
Lazarus  is  dying;  a  few  hours  more,  and  life 
will  have  ebbed  away.  Provisions  are  failing 
and  water  is  scarce,  and  still  the  enemy  is  eii- 
trenched  in  proud  security.  The  world  scoffs ; 
but  Thou  comest  not  down  the  mountain  slope, 
bringing  salvation.  Where  is  the  Pentecost  of 
which  Thou  speakest  ?  Where  Thy  Second  Ad- 
vent ? 

But  God  is  making  haste.  On  the  wings  of 
every  hour,  quicker  than  light  leaps  from  world 
to  world,  He  is  on  His  way.  Delays  are  not 
denials,  but  are  necessary  to  the  perfecting 
of  His  arrangements.  "Lo,  I  come  quickly  !  " 
is  still  true,  though  nineteen  hundred  years  have 
passed. 

We  do  not  wish  the  destruction  of  our  enemies, 
but  their  salvation.  We  long  that  God  should 
be  magnified,  and  souls  saved.  We  yearn  for 
the  setting  up  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  which  is 
peace  on  earth,  and  blessing.  And  for  this  end 
we  desire  that  God  should  accelerate  His  coming. 
O  God,  make  no  tarrying  !  Thine  enemies  boast 
themselves ;  our  spirits  faint  for  fear ;  men  are 
sinking  into  perdition.     Make  haste  ! 

Thy  God  will  not  be  a  moment  overdue. 
When  the  fourth  watch  breaks.  He  will  inter- 
pose. Not  too  soon  for  education ;  not  too  late 
for  deliverance.  But  dare  to  believe  that  He  is 
never  absent.  He  is  near  thee  all  the  while, 
bending  over  thee  and  all  men,  with  tender  pity, 
only  waiting  till  He  can  see,  with  infallible  wis- 
dom, the  best  instant  to  interfere. 
70 


Thou,  which  hast  showed  me  many  and  sore 
troubles,  shall  quicken  me  again.  Fsa.  Ixxi.  ^o(r.v.). 
GOD  shows  us  the  troubles.  We  stand  beside 
Him,  and  the  mighty  billows  break  around,  but 
are  shivered  into  myriads  of  drops.  As  we  ride 
beside  Him  in  the  chariot  of  salvation,  He  points 
out  to  us  the  forms  of  dreaded  evils,  the  ravines, 
the  glaciers,  the  awful  steeps  ;  but  it  is  as  though 
we  were  cradled  in  some  soft  golden  cloud  which 
fringes  the  edge  of  the  precipice,  and  glides 
along  splintered  cliffs  where  the  chamois  could 
not  find  footing.  Look  at  this,  saith  our  Guide. 
These  are  the  troubles  that  overwhelm  souls, 
and  drain  their  life  1  Behold  them,  but  thou 
shalt  not  suffer  them  !  I  show  you  them  that 
you  may  know  how  to  comfort  and  help  those 
who  have  been  overwhelmed.  Sometimes,  as 
this  part  of  our  education  is  being  carried  for- 
ward, we  have  to  descend  into  *'the  lower  parts 
of  the  earth,"  pass  through  subterranean  pas- 
sages, lie  buried  amongst  the  dead.  But  never 
for  a  moment  is  the  cord  of  fellowship  and  union 
between  God  and  us  strained  to  breaking;  and 
from  the  depths  God  will  bring  us  up  again. 

Never  doubt  God.  Never  say  that  He  has  for- 
saken or  forgotten.  Never  think  that  He  is  un- 
sympathetic. He  will  quicken  again.  There  is 
always  a  smooth  piece  in  every  skein,  however 
tangled.  The  longest  day  at  last  rings  out  the 
evensong.  The  winter  snow  lies  long,  but  it 
goes  at  last.  Be  steadfast ;  your  labor  is  not  in 
vain.  God  turns  again,  and  comforts.  And 
when  He  does,  the  heart  which  had  forgotten  its 
psalmody  breaks  out  in  jubilant  song,  as  does  the 
psalmist's. 

"  I  will   thank  Thee  with   the   lyre,  even  Thy  truth,  my 
God; 
I  will   harp  unto  Thee   with  the  harp,  Thou  Holy-  One 

of  Israel ; 
My  lips  shall  sing  aloud  when  I  harp  unto  Thee, 
And  my  suul  which  Thou  hast  redeemed." 
71 


Like  rain  upon  the  mow?i  grass. 

Fsa.  Ixxii.  6. 

AMOS  speaks  of  the  king's  mowings.  Our 
King  has  many  scythes,  and  is  perpetually  mow- 
ing His  lawns.  The  musical  tinkle  of  the  whet- 
stone on  the  scythe  portends  the  cutting  down  of 
myriads  of  green  blades,  daisies,  and  other 
flowers.  Beautiful  as  they  were  in  the  morning, 
within  an  hour  or  two  they  lie  in  long,  faded 
rows.  Thus  in  human  life  we  make  a  brave 
show,  which  passes  away  like  the  beauty  of  grass, 
before  the  scythe  of  pain,  the  shears  of  disap- 
pointment, the  sickle  of  death. 

There  is  no  method  of  obtaining  a  velvety 
lawn  but  by  repeated  mowings  ;  and  there  is  no 
way  of  getting  tenderness,  evenness,  sympathy, 
but  by  the  passing  of  God's  scythes.  How  con- 
stantly the  Word  of  God  compares  man  to  grass, 
and  His  glory  to  its  flower  !  But  when  grass  is 
mown,  and  all  the  tender  shoots  are  bleeding, 
and  desolation  reigns  where  flowers  were  burst- 
ing, it  is  the  most  acceptable  time  for  showers  of 
rain  falling  soft  and  warm. 

O  soul,  thou  hast  been  mown.  Time  after 
time  the  King  has  come  to  thee  with  His  sharp 
scythe.  Thou  hast  sadly  learned  that  all  flesh  is 
grass,  and  that  the  efl"orts  of  thy  self-life  are  vain. 
Where  are  the  king-cups  and  butter-cups  of  thy 
pride  ?  They  are  laid  low  that  thou  shouldest 
bear  better  crops  than  ever ;  and  that  thou  may- 
est  do  so,  lo,  He  comes  down  as  spring  rain  ! 
He  comes  down ;  thus  you  have  the  miracle  of 
His  condescension.  He  comes  down  like  rain  ; 
there  you  have  the  manner  of  His  gentle  advent. 
He  comes  on  the  mo7V7i  grass  ;  there  is  His  ex- 
pectancy, showing  tliat  His  reason  in  mowing, 
followed  as  it  is  by  the  gentle  raindrops,  lies  in 
the  direction  of  new  beauty  and  use.  Do  not 
dread  the  scythe — it  is  sure  to  be  followed  by  the 
shower. 

72 


Only  good  is  God  to  such  as  are  pure  in  heart. 
Psa.  Ixxiii.  i  (r.  v.,  marg.^. 

GOD  is  only  good.  Such  is  the  better  render- 
ing of  the  original.  He  makes  *'  all  things  work 
together  for  good  to  them  that  love  Him."  How- 
ever unlike  goodness  something  in  your  lot  may 
be,  turn  from  the  suggestions  of  sense  to  the  af- 
firmations of  faith,  and  dare  to  say, 

"  His  every  act  pure  blessing  is, 
His  path  unsullied  light." 

Nothing  so  glorifies  God  as  when  a  Cowper,  res- 
cued from  the  border  of  despair,  snatched  from 
committing  suicide,  dares  still  to  cling  to  his  be- 
lief in  the  goodness  of  God. 

Our  faith  is  sometimes  assailed,  as  Asaph's 
was,  by  the  anomalies  we  meet  with  in  the  world. 
The  wicked  prosper,  whilst  the  waters  of  a  full 
cup  are  wrung  out  to  the  people  of  God.  The 
scribes  and  Pharisees  greedily  devour  widows' 
houses,  and  prey  on  the  helpless;  whilst  earnest 
merit  seeks  for  work  and  recognition  in  vain.  It 
is  a  strange  world,  full  of  contradictions,  per- 
plexities, and  insoluble  questions ;  but  through 
it  all  God's  children  must  dare  to  affirm  that  He 
is  only  good.  You  do  not  feel  it?  Nevertheless, 
reason.  Scripture,  experience,  demand  that  you 
should  assert  it.  The  fact  is,  we  have  lost  the 
standpoint  of  vision.  The  psalmist  found  these 
things  too  painful  till  he  went  into  the  sanctuary 
of  God,  and  then  he  understood.  Do  not  take 
earth  as  the  centre  of  the  universe,  but  the  sun. 
Do  not  look  at  God  from  circumstances,  but  at 
circumstances  from  God.  Live  continually  with 
Him:  then  will  mystery  become  unravelled,  and 
dark  problems  solved.  Above  all,  be  pure  in 
heart,  free  from  the  stain  of  sense,  with  one  pur- 
pose. Thou  shalt  see  the  soul  of  good  in  what 
seems  evil. 


Have  respect  imto  the  covenant. 

Psa.  Ixxiv.  20. 

WHAT  a  marvellous  ejaculation  !  Here  is  a 
broken  heart,  pouring  out  its  wail  into  the  ear  of 
God  about  His  sanctuary  and  city.  His  adver- 
saries have  broken  into  the  sacred  precincts,  and 
have  hewn  down  its  exquisitely  carved  work  with 
hammer  and  hatchet.  They  were  as  men  who 
lift  up  the  hatchet  against  a  forest  of  trees.  There 
is  nothing  more  utterly  sad  than  the  lament, 
"We  see  not  our  signs:  there  is  no  more  any 
prophet;  neither  is  there  any  among  us  that 
knoweth  how  long." 

But  from  it  all  the  suppliant  rises  to  a  climax 
of  insistent  appeal,  and  bids  God  have  respect 
unto  the  covenant,  made  centuries  before  with 
Abraham  and  his  seed.  This  was  an  appeal 
which  struck  right  home  to  the  heart  of  God. 
He  could  not  deny  Himself. 

Here  is  an  attitude  in  prayer,  which  can  only 
be  taken  when  the  soul  has  become  intimate  with 
God,  and  come  to  close  grip  with  Him.  When 
every  other  reason  has  been  marshalled,  and 
every  argument  alleged ;  when  still  the  answer 
tarries,  and  the  case  is  desperate,  then  turn  to 
God,  and  say,  *<Thou  canst  not  run  back  from 
the  terms  of  the  covenant  to  which  Thou  hast 
pledged  Thyself.  This  is  included  in  the  bond 
of  agreement.  I  claim  that  Thou  shouldst  do  as 
Thou  hast  said." 

The  covenant  is  set  out  at  length  in  Heb.  viii. 
It  will  cover  all  the  exigencies  of  our  lives.  And 
by  Gal.  iii.  14  we  may  also  place  ourselves  under 
the  provision  of  the  threefold  covenant  which 
God  ratified  with  Abraham.  In  every  trial,  when 
desiring  any  blessing,  when  the  crashing  blows 
of  the  adversaries'  hatchet  are  heard,  turn  to 
God,  and  say,  '^  Have  respect  unto  the  covenant, 
of  which  Jesus  is  the  Mediator  and  His  blood  the 
seal." 

74 


He  lifteth  up. 

Psa.  Ixxv.  7. 

THIS  is  the  psalm  of  uplifts.  Against  the 
uplifts  of  the  wicked,  described  in  the  fourth 
verse,  the  psalmist  contrasts  the  uplifts  of  God. 
They  come  neither  from  east  nor  west,  but  from 
above.  God  is  the  supreme  arbiter  of  human 
destiny.  The  horns  of  the  wicked  are  cut  off, 
and  those  of  the  righteous  are  lifted  up,  by  the 
interpositions  of  His  Providence:  for  God  is 
judge. 

Are  you  depressed  to-day?  Look  up  to  Him, 
and  ask  that  you  may  be  uplifted  into  fellowship 
with  the  risen  glorified  Lord.  The  Ascension  of 
our  Lord  is  the  measure  and  example  of  our  own. 
Are  you  lying  among  the  pots?  Seek  for  the 
wings  of  the  dove,  that  with  flitting  pinion  you 
may  make  your  way  to  the  Ark,  where  the  hand 
awaits  to  take  you  in.  Have  you  been  in  the 
valley  of  the  shadow  of  death  ?  Claim  that  the 
mighty  power  which  wrought  in  Christ  when 
God  raised  Him  from  the  dead,  and  made  Him 
sit  in  the  heavenlies  far  above  all  power  and 
principality,  may  do  as  much  for  you. 

This  is  also  true  in  a  temporal  sense.  Promo- 
tions in  any  direction,  to  positions  of  credit,  in- 
fluence, or  consideration,  are  the  gift  and  work 
of  God.  To  be  lifted  up  to  a  chief  place  in  His 
Church,  to  the  stewardship  of  large  wealth,  to  the 
exercise  of  commanding  influence,  is  due  to  the 
Divine  interposition.  You  do  not  hold  it  at  the 
caprice  of  man,  but  as  the  direct  bestowment  of 
your  Father.  Do  not  fear  to  lose  it  because  you 
are  true  to  Him.  He  expects  you  to  be  true  to 
Him.  He  has  put  you  where  you  are  for  no 
other  purpose  than  that  you  should  realize  His 
purposes  among  men.  "A  man  can  receive 
nothing,  except  it  have  been  given  him  from 
heaven."  But  if  thou  didst  receive  it,  why  dost 
thou  glory  ? 

75 


Surely  the  wrath  of  man  shall  praise  Thee :  the 
residue  shall  Thou  restrain. 

Psa.  Ixxvi.  10  (R.  v.,  marg.). 

FROM  this  review  of  the  fate  of  the  foes  of 
Israel,  the  psalmist  comes  to  this  conclusion.  He 
has  seen  the  serried  hosts  of  Sennacherib  come 
up  against  the  city  of  God,  but  the  warriors  have 
slept  their  sleep  :  it  was  as  though  the  Almighty- 
had  snapped  the  instruments  of  war  across  His 
knee.  The  wrath  of  man  had  been  allowed  up 
to  a  certain  point,  to  bring  into  clear  evidence 
the  greater  power  of  God;  and  then  He  had 
quietly  put  a  term  to  its  further  manifestation. 

Pharaoh's  wrath  against  Israel  only  served  to 
make  God's  mighty  arm  conspicuous.  So  with 
Herod,  who  took  Peter  to  behead  him ;  and  with 
the  high  priests  who  fumed  against  the  early 
Church.  So  shall  it  be  with  the  arch-enemy  of 
all.  Christ  is  mightier  than  he  is.  All  he  has 
done  has  acted  as  a  foil  to  our  Lord's  glorious 
majesty.  What  he  has  wrought  against  man  has 
only  brought  out  more  of  the  grace  and  the  love  of 
God.  So  shall  it  be  to  the  end,  when  there  shall 
be  an  eternal  limit  put  to  his  hellish  deeds,  for 
he  shall  be  bound  by  a  great  chain  and  cast  into 
the  bottomless  pit. 

Ah,  tried  soul,  what  is  permitted  to  happen  in 
your  life  will  tend  ultimately  and  eternally  to  the 
praise  and  glory  of  God,  if  only  you  will  abide  in 
Him,  and  suffer  bravely,  nobly,  in  the  grace  of 
Christ.  And  there  always  will  be  a  restraint. 
There  will  always  be  a  "thus  far  and  no  far- 
ther." God's  faithfulness  will  not  let  us  be 
tempted  above  that  we  are  able.  When  the  les- 
son is  learned,  and  the  opportunity  for  the  reve- 
lation of  God  is  complete,  and  the  tried  soul  is 
proved  to  have  won  as  its  reward  the  crown  of 
life,  then  God  will  stay  the  enemy  and  avenger, 
and  give  spoils  more  glorious  than  mountains  of 
prey. 

76 


Thy  way  is  in  the  sea.  .  .  .   Thou  leddest  Thy 
people  like  a  flock.  Psa.  IxxvU.  ig,  20. 

THIS  is  almost  the  climax  of  sublimity,  because 
of  the  contrast  of  the  majesty  and  gentleness  of 
God.  In  the  first  of  these  verses  you  have  the 
former.  God  is  described  as  wading  through 
mighty  oceans  as  a  man  might  ford  some  tiny 
stream.  The  Atlantic  with  fathomless  depths  is 
no  more  to  Him  than  a  brook  to  us — not  so 
much.  But  as  the  brook  hides  the  footmarks 
which  are  imprinted  on  its  soft  ooze,  so  are 
God's  footprints  hidden.  We  cannot  detect  His 
great  and  wonderful  secrets.  We  are  unable  to 
gauge  His  reasons.  He  marches  through  the 
ages  with  steps  we  cannot  track.  For  His  orbit 
there  is  no  standard  of  computation. 

But  dread  Him  not.  This  mighty  God  has 
the  tender  heart  of  a  shepherd.  He  leads  His 
people  like  a  flock  ;  not  overdriving,  but  carry- 
ing the  lambs  in  His  bosom,  and  gently  leading 
those  that  are  with  young.  Mightier  than  the 
mightiest,  but  meeker  than  the  meekest !  The 
Lion  of  Judah,  but  the  Lamb  of  Bethlehem ! 
Prince  and  Saviour ;  Fellow  of  Jehovah ;  and  yet 
the  smitten  Shepherd  of  the  scattered  flock  ! 

Nor  is  this  all.  It  is  a  human  hand  that  leads 
the  flock.  God  does  His  work  through  the  hands 
of  human  and  fallible  agents.  You  have  not  rec- 
ognized Him ;  but  had  your  eyes  been  opened, 
you  would  have  seen  His  leading  in  the  gentle 
hand  of  that  mother,  in  the  strong  grasp  of  that 
friend,  in  the  trembling  fingers  of  that  young 
girl,  in  the  tiny  hand  of  your  little  babe.  Ah, 
how  many  good  and  tender  hands  have  moulded 
and  fashioned  our  lives  ! — but  beneath  them  all 
there  have  been  the  leadings  of  the  great  God, 
convoying  us  through  deep  and  dark  waters  to 
our  fold. 

n 


Can  God? 

Psa.  Ixxviii,  ig.  ^ 

OH,  fatal  question  !  It  shut  Israel  out  of  the 
Land  of  Promise,  and  it  will  do  as  much  for  you. 
Israel  had  seen  the  wonderful  works  of  God, 
cleaving  the  sea,  lighting  the  night,  and  giving 
water  from  rocks.  Yet  they  questioned  God's 
ability  to  give  bread,  and  to  spread  a  table  in  the 
wilderness.  Surely  it  was  a  slur  on  His  gracious 
Providence  to  suppose  that  He  had  begun  what 
He  could  not  complete,  and  had  done  so  much 
but  could  not  do  all. 

But  we  are  in  danger  of  making  the  same  mis- 
take. Though  behind  us  lay  the  gift  of  the 
Cross,  the  miracles  of  Resurrection  and  Ascen- 
sion, the  care  exercised  by  God  over  our  early 
years,  the  goodness  and  mercy  of  our  after  lives, 
we  are  disposed  to  say,  *'  Can  God  ?  "  Can  God 
keep  me  from  yielding  to  that  besetting  sin  ?  Can 
God  find  me  a  situation,  or  provide  food  for  my 
children  ?  Can  God  extricate  me  from  this  ter- 
rible snare  in  which  I  am  entangled?  We  look 
at  the  difficulties,  the  many  who  have  succumbed, 
the  surges  that  are  rolling  high,  the  poor  devil- 
possessed  child,  and  we  say,  If  Thou  canst  do 
anything,  help  us  ! 

Nay,  nay,  there  is  no  If  with  God ;  there  is 
no  limit  to  His  almightiness  but  thy  unbelief. 
The  words  are  wrongly  placed.  Never  say  again, 
''Can  God?"  but  God  can.  Never,  If  Thou 
canst;  but  If  I  can  believe.  Never,  If  Thou 
canst  Thou  wilt ;  but  If  Thou  wilt  Thou  canst ; 
and  Thou  wilt,  since  Thou  hast  made  and  re- 
deemed me,  and  Thou  canst  not  forsake  the  work 
of  Thine  own  hands.  Argue  from  all  the  past  to 
the  present  and  future.  Fetch  arguments  for 
faith  from  the  days  that  have  gone. 

•'  His  love  in  time  past  forbids  me  to  think 
He'll  leave  me  at  last  in  trouble  to  sink." 

78 


How  long,  O  Lord? 

Psa.  Ixxix.  ^  (R.  v.). 

TO  us,  also,  as  to  this  long-suffering  Jew,  God's 
dealings  seem  sometimes  interminable.  We  do 
not  understand  why  the  cloud  hangs  over  us  so 
long,  why  the  pressure  of  trouble  lasts  year  after 
year.  We  cry,  ''How  long,  O  Lord?"  in  gusts 
of  impatience ;  but  take  care  not  to  hurry  God 
unduly,  lest  thou  force  Him  to  forego  doing  His 
best  work  in  thy  life. 

This  parable  helped  me;  may  it  help  you  to 
be  silent,  still,  and  long-suffering.  A  bar  of 
iron,  worth  ;^i,  when  wrought  into  horseshoes, 
is  worth  £^2  ;  if  made  into  needles,  it  is  worth 
^£70  ;  if  into  pen-knife  blades,  it  is  worth  ;£65o; 
if  into  springs  for  watches,  it  is  worth  ^^50,000. 
What  a  drilling  the  poor  bar  must  undergo  to  be 
worth  this ;  but  the  more  it  is  manipulated,  the 
more  it  is  hammered  and  passed  through  the  fire, 
and  beaten,  and  pounded,  and  polished,  the 
greater  its  value. 

So  with  the  Jews.  No  other  nation  has  passed 
through  such  awful  trial  and  discipline  as  they 
have ;  but  no  other  nation  was  capable  of  yield- 
ing such  wealth  of  service  to  mankind,  nor  af- 
fording such  untold  service  in  the  highest  re- 
gions. 

So  with  ourselves.  Those  that  suffer  most  are 
capable  of  yielding  most;  and  it  is  through  pain 
that  God  is  getting  the  most  out  of  us  for  His 
glory  and  the  blessing  of  others.  It  will  be  all 
right  some  day.  We  shall  see  it  and  be  satisfied. 
Yes,  great  Father,  we  would  like  to  be  watch- 
springs.  Take  no  heed  of  our  cry  if  sometimes 
we  forget  ourselves  and  say.  How  long  ? 

"  Then  haste  Thee,  Lord !     Come  clown, 
Take  Thy  great  power  and  reign ! 
But  frame  Thee  first  a  perfect  crown 
Of  spirits  freed  from  stain." 
79 


Turn  us  agaift,  O  God. 

jF^a.  Ixxx.  J. 

THREE  times  we  have  this  cry  repeated  in  this 
psalm.  Again  and  again,  and  each  time  with 
some  additional  thought,  the  soul  pleads  for  Res- 
toration (r.  v.,  marg.). 

The  Master  said  to  Peter :  When  thou  art  con- 
verted {i.e.,  turned  again)  strengthen  thy  breth- 
ren. But  Peter  did  not  realize  that  the  Master 
Himself  would  need  to  turn  him.  He  turned 
his  back  on  his  Lord  and  denied  Him;  but 
Jesus  turned  him  back,  by  that  look,  that  mes- 
sage from  His  grave  mouth,  that  interview  in  the 
garden  and  on  the  lake-shore.  He  turned  him 
facewards  to  Himself,  and  caused  his  face  to 
shine,  and  Peter  was  saved. 

We  can  be  regenerated  only  once,  but  we  can 
be  converted  many  times.  The  new  life  is  im- 
planted once  for  all,  and  it  is  everlasting,  unex- 
tinguishable,  and  permanent ;  but  those  who  have 
been  born  from  above,  and  are  undoubtedly 
children  of  God,  may,  beneath  the  power  of 
some  strong  fascination,  turn  aside,  may  wander 
in  forbidden  paths,  may  get  into  such  a  maze  as 
to  be  walking  in  the  contrary  direction  to  that 
on  which  they  started.  There  may  even  be  times 
when  our  desire  for  God  is  slackened,  our  appe- 
tite for  the  Bible  is  lost,  our  soul  is  bound  and 
tied  with  the  cords  of  sin ;  at  such  times,  let  us 
bemoan  ourselves,  our  folly  and  impotence,  and 
cry,  "Turn  us  again,  O  God,  and  we  shall  be 
turned;  for  Thou  art  the  Lord  our  God."  He 
who  at  first  called  us  to  Himself  must  call  us 
back :  He  who  regenerated,  must  renew  :  He  who 
reconciled  us  to  God  by  His  death,  must  save  us 
by  His  life.  When  most  dark,  and  dead,  and 
estranged,  cry  with  Ephraim  :  "  Turn  Thou  me, 
and  I  shall  be  turned ;  for  Thou  art  the  Lord 
my  God  "  (Jer.  xxxi.  i8). 
80 


Thou   calledsl,   .   .   .   I  delivered ;    I  answered 
thee  in  the  secret  place  of  thunder.    Psa.  Ixxxi.  7. 

SUCH  trouble  as  Israel  passed  through  in  the 
Exodus  comes  but  once  in  the  history  of  a  nation. 
From  the  brick-kilns  and  treasure-cities  which 
they  built,  God's  people  called  to  Him  with 
strong  cryings  and  tears,  extorted  by  insupport- 
able sorrows.  Still  more  did  they  need  to  cry 
for  help  when  they  stood  between  the  Egyptians 
and  the  waters  of  the  Red  Sea.  From  the  beach 
a  nation's  call  rose  to  God.  Then  was  their 
trouble  and  heart-travail — a  nation  in  throes  of 
pain  !  Are  you  in  trouble  ?  Call  upon  God  in 
the  day  of  trouble ;  He  will  answer. 

God's  answers  are  often  in  the  secret  place  of 
thunder.  From  His  pavilion  of  cloud  God  spoke 
in  tones  of  thunder  that  pealed  over  the  heavily- 
breaking  surf  of  the  Red  Sea.  Several  of  the 
Psalms  allude  to  the  thunderstorm  that  rolled 
through  the  night  of  the  passage  through  the 
deep.  The  march  of  Israel  was  to  the  roll  of 
thunder.  The  peals  of  heaven's  artillery  struck 
dismay  into  the  hearts  of  the  alien ;  but  it  was 
as  though  the  Father  was  speaking  to  His  chil- 
dren, the  people  with  whom  He  was  in  covenant. 

God's  answer  to  our  prayer  is  often  in  thunder- 
tones  that  hurtle  through  the  air.  By  terrible 
things  in  righteousness  He  answers  us.  When 
Jesus  asked  the  Father  to  glorify  His  name,  the 
quiet  reply,  "I  have  .  .  .  and  will,"  which  He 
understood,  sounded  like  thunder  to  the  by- 
standers. Happy  the  child  who  in  thunder- 
claps detects  the  Father's  voice,  and  in  mystic 
characters  of  flame  reads  the  Father's  handwrit- 
ing !  Whilst,  at  Sinai,  the  people  trembled  at 
the  repeated  thunder-peals  reverberating  above 
them,  Moses  went  into  the  thunder-covert  where 
God  was.  There  is  no  fear  in  love,  because  per- 
fect love  casteth  out  the  fear  that  hath  torment. 
81 


Arise,  O  God,  Judge  the  earth  :  for  Thoit  shalt 
inherit  all  the  nations.  Psa.  IxxxU.  8  {r.  v.). 

THE  judges  and  magistrates  are  compared  in 
this  psalm  to  God,  because  they  exercise  some- 
thing of  His  power  in  the  right  ordering  of 
human  society.  The  Bible  always  inculcates 
respect  and  reverence  to  properly  constituted 
authority,  though  it  never  hesitates  to  demand 
of  all  in  authority  that  they  should  exercise  their 
high  functions  impartially.  Too  often  has  the 
high  trust  been  abused,  and  the  psalmist  turns 
with  relief  to  the  upright  Judge,  and  comforts 
himself  with  the  reflection  that  one  day  God 
Himself  shall  judge  the  earth,  because  He  shall 
inherit  all  the  nations. 

Christ  is  the  Firstborn  and  Only  Begotten.  As 
such  He  shall  inherit  all  things.  They  were 
made  for  Him.  He  is  the  Heir.  He  came  in 
His  incarnation  to  claim  His  inheritance ;  but 
His  claim  was  denied.  He  was  cast  out  of  the 
vineyard  and  slain;  but  His  claims  were  not 
annulled,  they  remained  intact.  And  during 
the  present  age  they  are  being  vindicated ;  and 
in  answer  to  His  appeal  He  is  receiving  the 
heathen  for  His  inheritance,  and  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  earth  for  His  possession.  One  nation 
after  another  is  becoming  His  province.  The 
kings  of  the  isles  are  bringing  presents;  the 
kings  of  Sheba  and  Seba  are  offering  gifts. 

It  is  great  encouragement  in  missionary  work 
to  know  that  every  nation  is  by  right  of  gift  and 
inheritance  our  Lord's.  He  sold  His  all  to  pur- 
chase it,  because  His  treasure  was  buried  here. 
It  is  ours  to  make  it  His  in  fact.  It  is  always 
easy  to  work  on  the  line  of  the  Divine  purpose. 
God  never  purposes  outside  what  is  practicable 
and  possible  for  man  to  realize.  Apprehend  the 
purpose  of  God,  and  without  hesitation  claim  its 
realization. 


O   Gody  keep  not  Thou  silence ;  hold  not    Thy 
peace  J  and  be  not  still,  O  God. 

Psa,  Ixxxiii.  i  (r.  v.), 

OH  that  God  would  break  the  silence  !  If  He 
would  but  say  one  word  !  If  we  might  but  hear 
that  voice — deep .  as  the  sound  of  many  waters, 
and  tender  as  the  call  of  love — just  to  say  that 
He  was  there ;  that  all  which  we  believed  was 
true  ;  that  He  was  satisfied  and  pleased  ;  that  our 
perplexities  would  work  out  right  at  last !  It  is 
so  difficult  sometimes  to  go  on  living  day  by  day 
without  one  authoritative  word ;  and  we  are 
prone  to  rebuke  Him  for  silence,  that  He  is  still, 
that  He  holds  His  peace.  "Be  not  Thou  silent 
unto  me,  lest  I  be  like  those  that  go  down  into 
the  pit." 

But  God  has  not  kept  silence.  The  Word  was 
manifested.  In  Him  the  silence  of  eternity  was 
broken.  And  if  Thou  and  I  are  still,  if  our  ear 
is  purged,  and  anointed  with  the  blood  and  oil, 
if  we  make  a  great  silence  in  our  heart,  we  shall 
hear  Him  speak. 

««  Where  is  Thy  haunt,  Eternal  Voice  ? 
The  region  of  Thy  choice  ; 
WTiere,  undisturbed  by  earth,  the  soul 
Owns  Thy  entire  control." 

'Tis  not  where  torrents  are  born,  nor  amid 
snow-capped  peaks,  nor  in  the  break  of  the  surf; 
but  in  the  heart,  weaned  from  itself,  isolated  in 
chambers  of  sickness,  cast  among  strangers, 
yearning  for  tender  voices  that  cannot  make 
themselves  heard — there  God  is  no  longer  still. 
He  breaks  the  silence.  "  Comfort  ye,  comfort 
ye,  my  people,  saith  your  God."  "It  is  I;  be 
not  afraid."  It  is  always  easy  to  detect  God's 
voice,  because  it  is  full  of  Jesus,  who  is  the  Word 
of  God,  and  it  is  corroborated  by  Providence ; 
but  the  heart  must  be  still,  and  on  the  listen ! 
83 


The  Lord  God  is  a  sun  and  shield :  the  Lord  will 
give  grace  arid  glory.  Psa.  Ixxxiv.  n. 

HOW  God  suits  Himself  to  our  need  !  In 
darkness,  He  is  a  Sun ;  in  the  sultry  noon,  a 
Shield ;  in  our  earthly  pilgrimage  He  gives 
grace ;  when  the  morning  of  heaven  breaks,  He 
will  give  glory.  He  suits  Himself  to  every  vary- 
ing circumstance  in  life.  He  becomes  what  the 
exigency  of  the  moment  requires.  And  as  the 
psalmist  well  says,  He  withholds  no  good  thing 
from  them  that  walk  uprightly.  Learn  the  art 
of  extracting  from  God  the  special  form  of  help 
of  which  you  stand  in  need. 

The  Sun  is  the  source  of  light  and  life.  With 
impartial  beneficence  he  scatters  his  beams  on 
palace  and  cottage,  mountain  summit  and  low- 
land vale.  He  is  ever  pouring  out  his  beams. 
It  is  our  part  only  to  stand  in  them,  or  to  open 
casement  or  door.  God  is  shining,  dear  heart. 
Get  out  of  thyself,  and  sun  thy  shivering  frame 
in  His  untiring  love. 

A  Shield  may  be  the  shadow  of  a  great  rock  in 
the  scorching  desert,  or  the  canopy  of  a  gourd's 
growth.  Put  God  between  yourself  and  the  si- 
rocco of  temptation.  Is  the  noon  with  its  burn- 
ing heat  too  much  for  thee?  Hide  in  the  Lord 
God.  The  heat  shall  not  smite  thee  by  day,  nor 
the  frost  by  night. 

Dost  thou  need  Grace  ?  He  is  full  of  it.  His 
grace  is  sufficient.  With  both  hands  He  will 
give  and  give  again ;  only  practice  the  habit  of 
taking.  Grace  is  the  bud  of  which  Glory  is  the 
flower.  If  He  has  given  this,  He  will  not  with- 
hold that.  If  thou  k newest  the  gift  of  God,  thou 
wouldst  be  sure  that  Glory  in  germ  is  within 
thee,  waiting  only  for  the  summer  of  Eternity  to 
develop  in  perfect  beauty.  <*We  have  had  our 
access  by  faith  into  this  grace  wherein  we  stand, 
and  we  rejoice  in  hope  of  the  glory  of  God." 
64 


Mercy  and  truth  are  met  together  ;  righteousness 
and  peace  have  kissed  each  other,      Fsa.  Ixxxv.  lo. 

THIS  has  been  fitly  called  "  the  bridal  of  the 
earth  and  sky."  Mercy  is  the  love  that  finds  its 
reason  in  itself,  its  measure  in  helplessness  and 
ill-desert.  But  in  God  it  is  always  blended  with 
Truth.  God  must  be  faithful  to  His  covenant 
relations,  to  His  Son,  to  Himself,  and  to  the  law 
which  He  has  instituted.  Any  display  of  mercy 
must  be  consistent  with  truth.  These  are  heav- 
enly twins.  Where  you  meet  one  you  will  be 
sure  of  the  other.  Jesus  was  full  of  grace  and 
truth.  The  love  He  brings  is  consistent  with  the 
highest  considerations ;  and  by  His  death  it  is  so 
arranged  that  God  acts  consistently  with  His 
holy  law  in  loving  and  saving  the  meanest  and 
weakest  believer. 

Righteousness  has  for  her  twin  sister  Peace. 
**The  effect  of  righteousness  shall  be  peace." 
The  King  of  Righteousness  is  after  that  the  King 
of  Peace.  If  you  want  peace,  you  must  be  right 
with  God  ;  and  if  you  would  be  right  with  God, 
you  must  come  to  Jesus  and  become  united  to 
Him,  who  is  made  unto  us  the  righteousness  of 
God.  At  the  cross  these  two  kissed.  The  right- 
eousness of  God  was  satisfied,  and  the  peace  of 
man  secured. 

What  a  wondrous  cross  is  that  on  which  the 
Prince  of  Glory  died  !  The  question  was — How 
could  God  be  just,  and  yet  justify  the  ungodly? 
How  could  He  uphold  the  majesty  of  the  moral 
law,  and  yet  take  sinners  to  His  heart?  But  the 
answer  came  clear  and  satisfying,  when  the 
Maker  of  Man  took  on  Himself  our  sin  and  gave 
justice  its  due.  Now  see  that  perfect  blending 
of  the  Divine  attributes,  and  that  God  is  **just, 
and  the  Justifier  of  him  that  believeth  in  Jesus." 
Oh  that  truth  might  spring  up  as  the  response 
and  echo  of  our  hearts  ! 
85 


Thoii,  Lord,  art  good,  and  ready  to  forgive. 

Psa.  Ixxxvi.  J". 

WE  are  blinded  by  sin,  and  cannot  believe 
that  God  is  ready  to  forgive.  We  think  that  we 
must  induce  Him  to  forgive,  by  tears,  promises 
of  amendment,  religious  observances.  There  is 
in  every  heart  such  difficulty  in  understanding 
the  unwearying  patience  and  ever-yearning  love 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Oh,  clasp  this  word  to 
your  heart  !  Say  it  over  and  over  again — 
•'  Ready  to  forgive,  ready  to  forgive  !  "  At  any 
moment  of  the  sad  history  of  the  prodigal,  had 
he  returned,  he  would  have  found  his  old  father 
as  ready  to  forgive  as  on  the  day,  too  long  de- 
layed, when  he  did  return.  The  only  pity  was 
that  he  had  not  come  long  before. 

You  have  fallen  a  hundred  times,  and  are 
ashamed  to  come  to  God  again ;  it  seems  too 
much  to  expect  that  He  will  receive  you  again. 
But  He  will,  for  He  is  ready  to  forgive.  You 
feel  that  your  sin  is  aggravated,  because  you 
knew  so  much  better ;  but  it  makes  no  difference 
to  Him,  He  is  as  ready  to  forgive  you  now,  as 
when  first  you  came.  You  are  disposed  to  wait 
a  little,  till  your  sin  has  become  more  remote, 
till  passion  has  subsided,  till  the  inscription  has 
faded  from  the  wall ;  but  you  might  as  well 
go  at  once,  God  is  as  ready  to  forgive  at  this  mo- 
ment as  at  any  future  time.  You  are  wounding 
Him  greatly  by  doubting  Him.  He  is  ready, 
waiting,  eager  to  forgive.  You  have  only  to  call 
upon  Him,  and  you  would  discover  the  plen- 
teousness  of  His  mercy.  How  ready  Jesus  ever 
was  to  forgive  sinners,  herein  revealing  God's 
heart ! 


"  O  Love,  Thou  deep  eternal  tide. 
How  dear  are  men  to  Thee  ! 
The  Father's  heart  is  opened  wide 
By  Jesus'  blood  to  me." 
86 


All  my  fountains  are  in  Thee. 

Aa.  Ixxxvii.  7  (r.  v.). 

"ALL  my  fresh  springs,"  the  Prayer-book 
version  has  it.  Perennial  freshness  !  This  is  our 
portion.  We  have  only  to  abide  in  Christ  in 
daily,  hourly  faith,  through  the  grace  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  for  where  that  is  secured  there  need  be  no 
further  effort ;  naturally,  perennially,  plentifully, 
there  will  arise  in  us  the  fountains  whose  source 
is  God,  and  the  ultimate  destination  of  whose 
waters  are  the  wildernesses  and  deserts  around. 

Do  you  want  freshness  in  yotir  love?  The 
vintages  of  other  years  cannot  provide  you  with 
the  ruddy  clusters  and  the  wine  of  sacrifice  re- 
quired for  present  day  needs.  You  want  new 
enthusiasm,  tenderness,  and  interest  in  those 
around  you.  Deepen  your  union  with  God  by 
faith  and  prayer.  Your  fresh  springs  are  in 
Him ;  He  will  Himself  be  in  you  a  spring  of 
living  water,  rising  up  to  everlasting  life  and 
love. 

Do  you  want  freshness  in  your  views  of  truth  ? 
There  are  such  constant  demands  made  on  your 
teaching  powers,  that  you  are  sometimes  fearful 
of  exhaustion.  But  if  you  keep  your  heart  open 
to  God,  and  your  soul  perpetually  nourished  by 
Scripture,  you  will  find  that  God's  thoughts  will 
come  freshly  and  brightly  to  you — new  as  each 
morning,  fresh  as  spring. 

Do  you  want  freshness  in  your  religious  life  ? 
This,  too,  is  His  gift,  because  the  life  we  live  in 
the  flesh  is,  after  all,  not  our  own  life,  but  His. 
Jesus  is  in  us,  the  Hope  and  Fount  of  the  true 
life.  All  He  wants  is  to  have  orifices,  channels, 
openings  in  the  rocky  soil,  and  He  will  arise 
in  us  heavenward  and  Godward,  as  fountains 
in  the  sunny  air.  Rise  up  in  us.  Thou  Blessed 
One,  who  art  evermore  the  resurrection  and  the 
life! 

87 


Incline  Thine  ear  unto  my  cry  ^  for  my  soul  is  full 
of  troubles.  Psa.  IxxxviU.  ^,  j. 

THE  psalmist  has  found  the  quickest  argument 
before  his  God.  There  is  nothing  that  so  quickly 
makes  the  bell  ring  in  heaven  as  the  touch  of  a 
troubled  hand.  When  a  man  is  full  of  the  inter- 
ests of  life,  of  prosperity,  and  self-content ;  when 
the  voices  of  applause  resound  on  every  side ; 
when  his  house  is  full  of  children,  and  his  barn 
of  sheaves,  his  prayer  halts,  and  God  seems  far 
away.  But  let  trouble  come — let  the  waters, 
swollen  by  many  confluent  streams,  begin  to  rise 
within  his  soul,  so  that  lover  and  friend  are  far 
away,  and  he  compassed  with  terror  (i6,  i8), 
then  God  bends  His  ear  and  heart. 

O  child  of  sorrow,  do  not  count  that  you  are 
cast  away !  It  is  true  that  your  Lord  cried  from 
His  Cross,  *' Why  hast  Thou  forsaken  Me  ?  "  but 
even  Him,  though  laden  with  the  sins  of  the 
world,  the  Father  held  near  His  heart.  And  He 
has  not  left  you,  neither  can  He. 


"  The  earth  and  every  vassal  star, 

All  space  beyond  the  soar  of  angel  wings, 

Wait  on  His  word ;  and  yet  He  stays  His  ear 

For  every  sigh  a  suppliant  sinner  brings." 


Try  and  think  of  trouble  as  storing  your  heart 
with  seeds  of  joy;  as  acting  upon  you  as  the  fire 
upon  the  primeval  earth,  scattering  jewels  through 
its  crust ;  or  as  the  glaciers  that  brought  the  rich 
soil  into  the  valleys;  or  as  the  husbandman  who 
buries  the  seeds  of  spring  in  the  autumn  fields. 
A  veiled  angel,  nothing  else  ! 


"  But  if,  impatient,  thou  let  slip  thy  Cross, 

Thou  wilt  not  find  it  in  this  world  again, 

Nor  in  aiioUier;  licre,  and  here  alone, 

Is  given  thee  to  suffer  for  God's  sake." 

88 


Nevertheless  My  loving-kindness  will  I  not  utterly 
take  from  him.  Psa.  lxxxix.32,33. 

I  WAS  asked  the  other  day  if  I  believed,  as  an 
increasing  number  were  said  to  do,  that  each  man 
bears  his  own  sin,  and  that  there  is  no  such  thing 
as  the  vicarious  imputation  of  the  sins  of  the 
world  to  the  Lamb  of  God.  I  said  at  once  that 
this  idea,  so  growingly  prevalent,  would  not  avail 
to  help  men  and  women  like  many  of  those  with 
whom  I  come  in  contact,  and  are  deeply  dyed. 
Tell  them  that  they  must  bear  their  own  sin,  and 
they  turn  from  you  in  despair.  This  is  what 
conscience  has  been  reading  to  them  hourly  from 
the  stony  book  of  the  law.  The  soul  dreads  to 
have  to  bear  its  sin,  and  cries  out  for  propitiation 
and  covering.  A  dying  man  said  recently,  "I 
have  been  into  the  valley  of  death,  and  where  is 
my  covering?"  Men  need  a  covering.  It  is 
requisite  that  help  should  be  laid  upon  One  that 
is  mighty  (ver.  19). 

We  need  to  distinguish  between  guilt  and  sec- 
ondary consequences  of  sin.  For  guilt  we  must 
have  the  transference  of  the  black  load  of  sin  to 
our  Saviour.  But  it  is  also  perfectly  true  that 
the  nervous  or  physical  system  of  the  drunkard 
will  never  be  what  it  might  have  been.  The 
consequences  of  wrongdoing  must  be  reaped. 
God  will  forgive  you,  and  His  loving-kindness 
will  not  depart ;  but  He  will  visit  your  trans- 
gression with  the  rod,  and  your  iniquity  with 
stripes.  But  even  here  His  mercy  will  avail  to 
transform  the  curse  into  a  blessing,  and  make 
myrtles  bloom  where  thistles  had  flourished. 
God's  love  can  so  transmute  these  results  of  sin, 
that  where  sin  reigned  unto  death,  grace  shall 
reign  unto  eternal  life.  But  never  forget  that, 
when  once  God  has  entered  into  covenant  with 
a  soul,  He  will  stand  to  it,  till  the  heavens  be  no 
more. 


Ohy  satisfy  us  m  the  morning  with  Thy  mercy. 

Psa.  xc.  14  (B..\.). 

IT  was  toward  the  close  of  the  desert  wander- 
ings that  Moses  wrote  this  sublime  psalm,  all  the 
imagery  of  which  is  borrowed  from  the  wilder- 
ness. The  watch  around  the  camp-fire  at  night ; 
the  rush  of  the  mountain  flood ;  the  grass  that 
sprouts  so  quickly  after  the  rain,  and  is  as  quickly 
scorched ;  the  sigh  of  the  wearied  pilgrim  (9  r. 
v.,  marg.).  As  the  old  man  looks  back  on  life, 
he  gives  it  as  his  experience  that  the  heart  which 
is  satisfied  with  mercy  in  the  morning,  never 
fails  to  rejoice  and  be  glad  all  its  days. 

There  is  no  hour  like  that  of  morning  prime 
for  fellowship  with  God.  If  we  would  dare  to 
wait  before  Him  for  satisfaction  the7i,  the  filling 
of  that  hour  would  overflow  into  all  other  hours. 
A  bright  Christian  lad,  giving  his  brief  testimony 
for  Jesus,  recently,  told  his  secret  when  he  said 
that  at  his  conversion  he  trusted  the  Lord  with 
his  morning  hour ;  and  the  way  he  spoke  of  it 
indicated  the  radiancy  of  the  light  that  shone  for 
him  then. 

Perhaps  the  morning  of  life  was  rather  in 
Moses'  thought.  If  so,  the  old  man  has  pre- 
pared a  prayer  in  which  successive  generations 
of  bright  children  may  join.  Young  ones,  do 
you  want  a  glad  and  rejoicing  life  ?  Do  you 
want  to  live  by  the  wells  that  never  dry  up  or 
freeze?  Seek  God's  mercy  in  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,  and  the  day  will  never  dawn  when  you 
will  regret  having  made  that  choice :  nay,  every 
day  will  be  full  of  rejoicing  gladness.  I  like  that 
record  of  the  holy  Columba,  at  the  end  of  his 
saintly  life,  "Angelic  in  appearance,  graceful  in 
speech,  holy  in  work,  beloved  by  all — for  a  holy 
joy  ever  beaming  on  his  face  revealed  the  joy 
and  gladness  with  which  the  Holy  Spirit  filled 
his  inmost  soul." 

90 


Thoic^  O  Lord  J  art  my  refuge. 

Psa.  xci.  g  (r.  v.). 
THE  structure  of  this  psalm  is  often  obscured. 
It  begins  with  the  announcement  on  the  part  of 
the  chorus  of  the  general  truth  that  to  dwell  in 
the  inner  place  of  fellowship  is  to  abide  under  the 
protection  of  Divine  Power. 

Twice  the  psalmist  speaks.  In  the  second 
verse  we  hear  him  saying  : — 

*'  I  will  say  of  the  Lord,  He  is  my  refuge  and 
my  fortress, 
My  God  in  whom  I  trust." 

In  the  ninth  verse  he  breaks  in  again : — 

**  For  Thou,  O  Lord,  art  my  refuge." 

And  each  profession  on  his  part  is  followed  by 
the  outburst  of  the  chorus  with  an  enunciation 
of  all  the  blessings  which  most  certainly  will  ac- 
crue. 

In  the  last  three  verses  God  Himself  is  intro- 
duced, assuring  His  child  of  all  that  He  is  pre- 
pared to  do  and  be.  Have  you  ever  said 
definitely,  *'0  Lord,  thou  art  my  refuge"? 
Fleeing  from  all  other,  have  you  sheltered  in  Him 
from  the  windy  storm  and  tempest,  from  the  har- 
row by  day,  and  pestilence  by  night,  from  man 
and  devil?  You  must  avow  it.  Do  not  only 
think  it,  but  say  it.  Keep  saying  it  because  it  is 
true,  rather  than  because  you  feel  it  to  be  true. 
Not  only  in  the  midst  of  sympathizing  friends, 
but  in  hours  of  loneliness,  desertion,  and  oppo- 
sition. 

In  a  farm,  in  which  I  am  interested,  we  have 
an  incubator,  the  artificial  heat  of  which  hatches 
hundreds  of  little  chickens ;  but  there  always 
seems  a  great  lack  in  their  lives — no  mother's 
call  or  wing.  They  invariably  remind  me  of 
those  who  have  not  sheltered  under  the  wing  of 
God. 

91 


/  am  anointed  with  fresh  oil. 

Psa.  xcii.  10  (R.  v.). 

THERE  is  perennial  freshness  in  God — in  the 
works  of  nature,  in  His  love,  and  in  the  renewal 
of  the  soul.  Does  the  eye  ever  tire  of  the  change- 
ful beauty  of  the  clouds  ?  Though  we  look  out 
from  childhood  to  old  age  on  the  same  landscape, 
there  is  always  something  fresh  to  captivate  the 
roving  eye.  Think  of  the  unfailing  freshness  in 
love — love  of  woman  to  man,  of  mother  to  child. 
Think  of  the  freshness  of  each  returning  day,  of 
earth  in  her  springtime  robe,  with  the  myriads  of 
sweet  children,  whose  laughter  is  as  ringing  and 
their  eyes  as  bright  as  if  the  earth  were  young, 
instead  of  being  old  and  weary.  And  if  God 
can  do  this  for  the  works  of  His  hands,  is  there 
any  limit  in  the  freshness  which  He  will  com- 
municate to  His  children  ? 

Each  morning  bend  your  heads,  ye  priests  of 
the  Most  High,  for  the  fresh  anointing  for  the 
new  ministries  that  await  you.  The  former  grace 
and  strength  will  not  suffice ;  old  texts  must  be 
rejuvenated  and  reminted ;  old  vows  must  be  re- 
spoken  ;  the  infilling  of  the  Holy  Spirit  must  be 
as  vivid,  and  may  be  as  definite,  as  at  the  first. 
See  to  it  that  you  do  not  rise  from  your  knees  till 
you  can  say,  "I  have  been,  and  am  anointed 
with  the  fresh  oil."  And  the  anointing  that  ye 
receive  from  Him  shall  abide  on  you,  teaching 
you  how  to  abide  in  Him.  So  you  shall  bring 
forth  fruit  in  old  age,  and  in  life's  winter  be  full 
of  sap  and  fervor. 

Pastor  Harm  used  to  say :  Pray  diligently.  I 
do  not  mean  your  common  prayer  alone;  but 
pray  diligently  in  your  room  daily  for  the  Holy 
Spirit.  How  their  faces  shine,  who  receive  this 
daily  unguent ! 

92 


The  floods  have  lifted  up,  O  Lord,  the  floods  have 
lifted  up  their  voice.  Fsa.  xciii.  3. 

HOW  often  a  man  says  these  words  over  to 
himself  as  he  paces  the  deck  of  the  steamer  in 
mid- Atlantic  !  There  is  no  commentary  to  this 
psalm  like  that  supplied  by  the  break  of  the 
waves.  Sometimes  the  voice  of  the  floods  is 
deafening;  you  cannot  hear  yourself  speak;  at 
other  times  all  night,  through  the  port-hole,  you 
hear  their  musical  break  beneath.  The  lifted  up 
voice  of  the  sea  gives  many  notes  in  the  great 
organ  of  nature,  sometimes  the  deep  bass,  at 
other  times  the  silvery  treble.  One  says  to  one's 
self— 

"  What  are  the  wild  waves  saying  ?  " 

They  may  be  inciting  one  another  to  a  work  of 
destruction  and  devastation,  roaring  in  their  rage, 
fretting  for  supremacy.  Why  should  they  endure 
the  presence  of  man  in  their  wild  waste?  He  is 
an  intruder.  The  sea-gulls  are  welcome;  they 
are  at  home  as  in  their  native  element,  but  man 
has  no  right. 

So  do  the  waves  of  trouble  roar  wildly  around 
the  bark  of  our  life.  There  are  times  when  surge 
on  surge  rolls  in  upon  the  soul,  and  breaks  with 
boom  and  roar ;  but  always  there  floats  upon  the 
soul  the  refrain  of  this  sublime  canticle,  "  Above 
the  voices  of  many  waters  the  Lord  on  High  is 
mighty."  He  sits  as  King,  higher  than  the  spray 
is  tossed,  deeper  than  the  fathomless  depths, 
mightier  than  the  strongest  billow.  Let  Him  but 
say,  "Peace,  be  still  !  "  and  the  greatest  storm 
that  ever  swept  the  waves  with  wild  fury  sinks 
into  the  tranquil  sleep  of  childhood.  Or,  if  we 
sink  beneath  the  wave,  we  sliall  but  fall  into  the 
hollow  of  God's  hand,  where  the  oceans  are 
cradled. 

93 


Blessed  is  the  man  whom  Thou  chastenest^  that 
Thou  may  est  give  him  rest.  Psa.  xciv.  12,  is. 

THE  reason  of  chastening  is  rest-giving.  God 
chastens  us  that  He  may  give  us  rest  from  the 
days  of  adversity.  In  sorrow  we  learn  lessons 
which  serve  us  in  good  stead  when  others  suffer 
without  remedy.  In  trial-times  the  child  of  God 
falls  back  upon  the  lessons  his  Father  taught  him 
out  of  the  black  letter-book  of  pain,  and  he 
knows  how  to  comport  himself.  Thus  he  finds 
rest  to  his  soul,  rest  in  the  will  of  God,  rest  in 
humble  submission  to  his  lot,  rest  in  the  wisdom 
that  cannot  err,  in  the  love  that  cannot  forget. 

God  teaches  all  the  scholars  in  His  school.  He 
dares  entrust  none  to  an  usher.  Enter  thyself  as 
a  scholar  in  the  academy  of  grace,  and  thou  shalt 
at  once  be  taught,  as  all  His  children  are,  of 
God. 

There  is  but  one  text-book  for  the  whole  school. 
It  is  always  the  Law  of  God.  We  learn  from  it 
when  we  are  babes.  In  mature  life  we  resort  to 
it  at  every  emergency.  In  old  age  we  feel  we 
never  understood  before  its  meaning  or  beauty. 
It  is  God's  "horn -book." 

Those  who  have  sat  longest  under  God's  tui- 
tion profess  they  know  least.  Instead  of  begin- 
ning at  the  lowest  class  and  working  up,  we  be- 
gin at  the  highest,  and  work  down.  The  grey- 
heads  sit  on  the  infants'  forms,  and  the  simplest 
are  the  wisest.  There  is  blessedness,  not  in 
roaming  the  fields,  but  in  sitting  on  the  bench 
and  learning  what  God  teaches  each  soul  that 
will  give  heed. 

Some  day,  the  lessons  will  be  done,  the  doors 
thrown  open,  and  the  scholars  will  be  dismissed, 
never  to  return  to  the  hard  bare  forms,  but  to  go 
for  holy-days  of  never-ending  gladness  in  the 
Father's  home. 

94 


Unto  whom  I  swear  in  my  wrath  that  they  should 
not  enter  into  my  rest.  Psa.  xcv.  ii. 

GOD'S  Rest  has  been  waiting  for  man's  en- 
trance, since  He  rested  from  all  the  work  that 
He  created  and  made.  To  all  other  days  there 
were  evening  and  morning,  but  not  to  this.  It 
does  not  consist  in  circumstances,  or  conditions 
of  existence,  but  in  disposition.  It  does  not  lie, 
as  sacred  poets  have  too  often  suggested,  beyond 
the  confines  of  this  world — it  is  now,  and  here. 
Canaan  is  not  primarily  a  type  of  heaven  ;  but  of 
that  blessed  experience  which  is  ours  when  we 
have  passed  the  Jordan  of  death  to  natural  im- 
pulse or  selfish  choice,  and  have  elected  forever- 
more  to  accept,  and  delight  in,  the  will  of  God. 

Will  you  not  take  up  this  position  to-day  ?  To- 
day f  Oh  that  ye  would  hear  His  voice  !  To 
hear  His  voice  speaking  in  the  heart,  in  circum- 
stances, and  in  nature,  and  to  obey  promptly, 
gladly,  blithely, — this  would  bring  the  soul  into 
the  rest  that  remains  unexhausted  for  the  people 
of  God.  Are  you  hardening  your  heart  against 
^  some  evident  duty  to  which  you  are  called,  but 
which  you  are  evading  ?  Are  you  hardening 
your  heart  to  some  appeal  which  comes  to  you 
through  the  ties  of  kinship  and  nature?  Are 
you  saying.  Can  God  subdue  these  Canaanites, 
instead  of  God  can  ?  Beware,  for  this  is  the  sin 
of  Massah  and  Meribah,  which,  being  interpreted, 
means  strife.  Woe  to  those  that  strive  with  their 
Maker ;  let  the  potsherd  strive  with  the  potsherds 
of  the  earth. 

Every  one  comes  in  the  Christian  life,  once  at 
least,  to  Kadesh-barnea.  On  the  one  hand  the 
land  of  rest  and  victory ;  on  the  other  the  desert 
wastes.  The  balance,  quivering  between  the  two, 
is  turned  this  way  by  faith;  that  by  unbelief. 
Trust  God,  and  rest.  Mistrust  Him,  and  the 
door  closes  on  rest,  to  open  to  wanderings,  fail- 
ure, and  defeat. 

95 


Say  among  the  nations,  The  Lord  reigneth. 
Psa.  xcvi.  10  (r.  v.). 

TELL  it  out !  The  message  is  too  good  to 
warrant  silence.  That  the  Lord  is  King  is  the 
secret  of  jubilation  and  blessing  for  all  the  world. 

Nature  is  glad,  because  his  rule  will  emanci- 
pate her  from  the  thralldom  under  which  she  has 
groaned  too  long.  When  the  kingdom  is  estab- 
lished in  the  hand  of  the  Son  of  Man,  the  long 
travail  of  creation  will  be  over ;  the  new  heavens 
and  earth  will  have  emerged.  Therefore  the 
psalmist  depicts  the  outburst  of  thanksgiving 
from  seas,  and  fields,  and  trees. 

The  world  of  men  may  be  glad  also,  because 
the  reign  of  Jesus  means  equity  for  the  oppressed, 
equal-handed  justice  for  the  poor,  peace  among 
the  nations. 

But,  above  all,  gladness  becomes  the  saints. 
If  the  Lord  Jesus  has  become  King  of  your 
heart,  and  has  brought  blessing  to  you,  do  not 
hesitate  to  give  voice  to  your  allegiance.  In  pri- 
vate, sing  unto  Him  a  new  song ;  in  public,  show 
forth  His  salvation,  and  declare  His  glory.  Tell 
it  out,  tell  it  out !  Have  you  ever  seriously  con- 
sidered whether  it  may  not  be  God's  will  for  you 
to  give  up  your  life  to  going  forth  to  distant 
lands,  to  tell  it  out  that  God  has  made  Jesus 
King,  and  that  He  must  reign,  and  that  His 
reign  is  blessedness? 

Probably  but  a  very  brief  interval  remains, 
during  which  we  can  tell  it  out.  Human  history 
has  well-nigh  fulfilled  its  six  working-days,  and 
approaches  its  millennial  rest ;  the  times  of  the 
Gentiles,  according  to  every  computation,  are 
nearly  fulfilled;  the  lawlessness,  which  was  to 
mark  the  last  days,  is  conspicuously  manifest; 
the  bride  is  rapidly  completing  her  preparation 
for  the  marriage-feast — haste  then,  O  heralds  of 
Salvation,  prepare  in  the  deserts  a  highway  for 
our  God. 

96 


Light  is  sonmfor  the  righteous ,  and  gladness  for 
the  upright  in  heart.  Psa.  xcvii.  ir. 

LIGHT  means  recognition,  joy,  song.  These 
await  such  as  are  clad  about  with  the  righteous- 
ness of  Christ,  and  are  following  the  paths  of 
righteousness  for  His  Name's  sake.  Never  swerve 
from  the  path  of  the  righteous ;  however  trying 
and  dark  your  present  experience  may  be,  it 
leads  to  a  harvest-home  of  joy  beyond  the  years. 

Sowing  is  sad  work.  It  is  a  casting  away  of 
precious  seed ;  the  flinging  far  and  wide  of  the 
treasured  stores  of  the  barn  ;  an  expenditure  of 
the  present  for  the  future.  The  sower's  heart 
might  fail  if  it  pictured  the  field  mice,  the  rot- 
ting rains,  the  blighting  mildew,  which  have 
ruined  so  many  hopes,  and  lie  in  wait.  So  the 
present  is  your  sowing-time ;  but  every  moment 
of  trial,  each  stab  of  pain,  nobly  borne,  is  a 
seed-germ  cast  into  the  furrows,  which  will  cer- 
tainly bring  a  blessed  recompense  of  light.  You 
do  not  realize  it,  but  you  are  sowing  light.  Each 
act  of  self-denial,  in  which  you  cast  yourself  into 
the  ground  to  die,  is  a  seed-germ  of  the  harvest 
of  gladness. 

Coal  is  sown  light.  When  the  forests  in  all 
the  glory  of  their  foliage  were  hurled  into  the 
bosom  of  the  primeval  earth,  and  desolation 
reigned,  it  seemed  a  sad  waste  of  the  Creator's 
work.  Who  could  have  realized  then  that  God 
was  really  sowing  the  light  of  winter  nights,  the 
fires  of  factory  and  forge  ?  Do  not  be  too  sad. 
Harvest  will  come,  though  the  weeks  move 
slowly. 

"  All  we  have  willed  or  hoped  or  dreamed  of  Good  shall 
exist : 
Not  its  semblance,  but  itself;  no  Beauty,  nor  Good,  nor 
Power, 
Whose  voice  has  gone  forth,  but  each  survives  for  the 
melodist, 
When  Eternity  affirms  the  conception  of  an  hour." 

97 


Ohf  sing  unto  the  Lord  a  new  song  / 

Psa.  xcviii.  i. 

COME,  my  soul,  thou  must  awake  to  sing  a 
new  song.  Thou  hast  dwelt  long  enough  on 
those  old,  sad,  minor  chords  of  loss  and  disap- 
pointment, of  regret  for  the  withered  past,  of 
bitter  remorse.  Surely  there  is  something  bet- 
ter, nobler,  worthier  of  thee  and  thy  great  Lord. 
Has  He  not  done,  is  He  not  doing,  marvellous 
new  things  in  thy  daily  experience?  Are  not 
His  mercies  new  every  morning,  and  His  faithful- 
ness every  night?  Is  not  His  love  always  at 
work  spreading  thy  table  for  new  meals,  making 
thy  bed  for  new  slumber,  contriving  new  allevia- 
tions and  delights  ?  Look  out  for  these  till  med- 
itation induces  thanksgiving. 

There  is  always  a  new  song  in  heaven,  because 
ever  a  fresh  and  deepening  appreciation  of  God. 
The  exploring  parties  are  continually  bringing 
back  some  fresh  and  wonderful  produce  of  God's 
wisdom  and  grace ;  and  as  they  hold  it  up  to  the 
admiration  of  kindred  spirits,  the  exhibition 
elicits  new  songs.  Through  the  Church  is  made 
known  to  the  principalities  and  powers  of  the 
heavenlies  the  manifold  wisdom  of  God.  The 
song  of  redeeming  grace  can  never  grow  old, 
even  though  the  same  words  recur;  they  re- 
semble the  banks  of  the  stream  through  which 
waters  are  passing  that  never  passed  before.  My 
soul,  listen  to  the  bursting  harmonies  of  creation, 
seas,  floods,  hills;  they  chide  thee.  Cast  off  the 
spirit  of  heaviness,  and  don  the  garment  of 
praise.  Perchance  thy  soul  is  sluggish  and  dull. 
But  it  should  not  master  thee.  The  psalmist  was 
master  of  his  soul ;  and  when  he  bade  it  bless 
the  Lord,  all  that  was  within  him  broke  forth 
into  melodious  thanksgiving.  Let  thy  spirit,  en- 
ergized by  the  Holy  Spirit,  be  regnant  over  the 
entire  realm  of  thy  inner  life. 
98 


Samuel  amotig  them  that  call  upon  His  name. 

Psa.  xcix,  6. 

EVIDENTLY  those  that  call  upon  the  name  of 
God  compose  a  separate  class.  There  are  classes 
of  prophets,  pastors,  teachers ;  and  there  are  the 
mighty  wrestlers  with  God,  whose  voices  are 
familiar  sounds  in  the  Divine  presence  chamber. 
It  is  a  high  honor  to  be  included  among  them 
that  call  upon  His  name.  If  you  cannot  find 
your  place  in  any  other  class,  perhaps  it  is  here. 
Possibly  you  have  great  gifts  of  prayer  and  inter- 
cession, which  you  have  never  rightly  employed, 
to  your  own  great  loss,  and  the  loss  of  others. 
Do  not  wait  for  God's  Angel  of  Providence  to 
shut  you  forcibly  into  a  lonely  chamber,  and 
compel  you  to  use  your  great  gift. 

Samuel's  prayers  are  frequently  referred  to. 
At  times  he  would  cry  unto  God  all  night.  He 
counted  it  a  sin  to  cease  to  pray  for  the  people. 
His  prayers  secured  the  defeat  of  the  Philistines; 
and  the  nation  sheltered  itself  in  His  interces- 
sions. We  can  never  estimate  the  worth  of  a 
good  man's  prayers;  and  they  lift  a  man  like 
Samuel,  destitute  of  commanding  genius,  to  stand 
side  by  side  with  Moses  in  the  estimate  of  Eter- 
nity. 

In  a  memorable  interview  with  the  late  George 
Miiller,  he  told  me  some  of  his  wonderful  expe- 
riences in  dealing  with  a  prayer-answering  God. 
Just  before  he  died  he  heard  of  the  conversion  of 
an  old  man,  for  whom  he  had  prayed  during  fifty 
years.  May  not  he,  and  such  as  he,  be  remem- 
bered in  this  holy  category  ?  Oh  to  be  remem- 
bered among  those  that  call  on  God's  name  ! 
But  always  bear  in  mind  the  thrice  accentuated 
message  of  this  Psalm  (3,  5,  9),  that  God  is 
holy.  It  is  only  as  we  are  cleansed  from  all  filth- 
iness  of  the  flesh  and  spirit,  that  we  can  prevail 
in  intercessory  prayer. 

99 


We  are  His  ;  we  are  His  people^  and  the  sheep 
of  His  pasture.  Psa.  c.  3  (r.  v.). 

THE  sense  of  God's  proprietorship  is  the  true 
basis  of  our  consecration.  We  must  realize  His 
rights  over  us  before  we  can  freely  give  Him  His 
due.  Those  rights  are  manifold  in  their  sweet 
reasonableness;  but  amongst  them  all,  this  of 
creation  is  one  of  the  chief.  God  has  a  right  to 
us  because  He  has  made  us. 

He  made  us,  as  the  potter  fashions  the  clay, 
for  a  distinct  purpose ;  and  surely  He  has  a  right 
to  use  the  vessels  of  His  workmanship  for  the 
purpose  unto  which  He  has  designed  them. 

He  made  us,  as  the  builder  erects  a  house  for 
the  purpose  of  inhabiting  it ;  and  surely  He  has 
a  right  to  occupy  every  distinct  room,  and  go  to 
and  fro  in  it  as  He  may  please. 

He  made  us,  as  the  hand  of  the  weaver  makes 
some  textile  fabric  for  wearing ;  and  surely  He 
must  not  be  debarred  from  the  free  and  unques- 
tioned disposal  of  that  on  which  He  has  ex- 
pended anxiety  and  time. 

We  are  Christ's  by  creation,  by  purchase,  by 
toils  and  tears,  by  the  gift  of  the  Father.  The 
Good  Shepherd  owns  us,  though  we  do  not  al- 
ways acknowledge  His  ownership,  or  repay  His 
pains  and  wounds  on  our  behalf.  Look  up  into 
His  face  and  say,  •'  I  am  Thine  by  a  myriad  ties, 
and  am  bound  to  Thee  forevermore.  Lead  me 
where  Thou  wilt ;  guide  me  whither  Thou  choos- 
est ;  count  me  as  one  of  Thy  people ;  feed  me  on 
Thy  pasture-lands ;  make  as  much  of  me  as  Thou 
canst,  this  side  of  heaven  ;  number  me  with  Thy 
saints  in  glory  everlasting." 

"With  bowed  heads  and  open  hearts,"  says 
Dr.  Westcott,  "  may  we  offer  ourselves.     We  can 
do  no  more,  and  we  dare  do  no  less." 
100 


/  will  walk  within  my  house  with  a  perfect  heart. 

Psa.  ci.  2. 

THIS  is  the  hardest  place  to  walk  in  perfectly. 
It  seems  easier  to  walk  perfectly  among  strangers 
than  in  one's  own  house.  But  you  may  rest  as- 
sured that  a  man  is  really  no  better  than  he  is  to 
his  own.  You  must  not  gauge  your  worth  by 
what  the  outside  world  thinks  and  says,  but  by 
the  estimate  of  those  that  see  you  in  the  ordinary 
intercourse  of  the  home. 

To  be  perfectly  courteous  to  those  whom  you 
are  meeting  at  every  meal ;  to  hold  yourself 
under  perfect  control  when  worried  by  tiny  in- 
sidious jars,  and  stung  by  almost  invisible  gnats ; 
to  maintain  always  the  perfect  girding  of  the 
loins;  to  have  the  head  always  anointed  and  the 
face  always  washed;  to  realize  God's  ideal, 
love's  ideal,  and  your  own.  Ah,  me  !  this  re- 
quires the  utmost  grace  that  God  can  give.  To 
die  once  is  easy;  to  live  always  with  an  undi- 
vided heart,  this  is  hard. 

Understand  that  in  the  home-life  God  is  edu- 
cating and  training  you  for  the  greatest  victories. 
There  you  are  learning  the  deepest  lessons  in 
sanctification.  You  need  not  run  to  conventions, 
sermons,  and  holiness  meetings;  if  you  would 
resolve  to  walk  in  your  house  with  a  perfect 
heart,  you  would  discover  how  far  from  perfect 
you  are,  and  how  you  are  the  least  of  His  saints. 
Seek  the  perfect  heart  in  your  home-life;  for 
then  God  will  come  unto  you,  and  dwell  beneath 
your  roof,  and  the  story  of  Bethany  would  be  re- 
duplicated for  your  household  and  yourself. 

"  Perhaps  •  a  single  heart '  is  never  known, 
Save  in  the  yielded  life  that  lives  for  God  alone ; 
And  that  is  therefore  doubted  as  a  dream 
By  those  wlio  know  not  the  tremendous  power 
Of  all-constraining  love." 

101 


But  Thou  art  the  same. 

Psa.  cii.  27. 

THIS  psalm  is  by  an  anonymous  singer.  All 
we  know  of  him  is  that  he  was  overwhelmed, 
and  poured  out  his  complaint  before  God.  But 
that  lonely,  sorrowful  heart  caught  glimpses  of 
God,  which  it  has  transmitted  to  all  the  world, 
enriching  it  forevermore.  Sometimes  we  are  led 
to  wander  alone  in  desolate  places  to  catch  new 
visions  of  the  Eternal,  hidden  from  ordinary 
souls ;  thus  ardent  artists  are  indifferent  to  peril 
and  privation  if  they  can  catch  a  mountain  from 
some  fresh  point  of  vision,  and  transfer  a  passing 
glimpse  to  their  immortal  canvas. 

This  psalm  is  despairful  enough  in  its  earlier 
passages.  The  smoke-wreath  dissipated  in  the 
breeze,  the  withered  grass  of  the  desert,  the  de- 
clining shadow,  the  chirrup  of  a  lonely  sparrow 
— such  are  the  images  that  occur  naturally 
enough.  But  as  he  sings  the  man's  vision  clears. 
He  looks  away  from  the  earth -mists  to  the  Eter- 
nal God.  Here,  at  least,  is  the  permanent  and 
unchanging.  Did  He  make  all  things?  Then 
He  can  unmake  them,  and  be  Himself  evermore 
the  same.  Let  the  earth  vanish  like  a  dream ; 
let  the  time-sphere  be  ended  ;  let  the  very  heav- 
ens wear  out  like  a  moth-eaten  garment ;  let  the 
nearest  and  dearest  pass  from  our  embrace. 
Thou  art  the  same;  Thou  art  left:  Thou  re- 
mainest.  **  All  that  is  transitory  forsaketh  us  ; 
but  Christ's  seal  of  recognition  forsaketh  us  not 
even  in  death,  but  bringeth  us  to  the  joyful 
heavenly  host,  unto  our  eternal  fatherland." 

The  writer  to  the  Hebrews  attributes  these 
words  to  Him  who  was  the  brightness  of  the 
Father's  glory  (Heb.  1.).  We  should  read  the 
psalm  again  with  this  reference  in  our  mind. 
Our  Saviour  is  God,  and  He  is  the  unchanging 
Rock  of  Ages  in  whom  we  may  shelter. 
102 


But  the  mercy  of  the  Lord  is  from  everlasting  to 
everlasting.  Psa.  cUL  17. 

NOTE  the  contrast.  Man's  frailty  against  the 
everlastingness  of  God's  mercy.  We  are  frail  as 
the  flower  of  the  field.  Each  generation  of  man 
comes  forth  like  the  grass  and  flowers,  which 
clothe  the  meadows  in  spring  only  to  meet  the 
remorseless  scythe.  But  frail  as  is  our  physical 
life,  our  resolutions  and  intentions  are  still  more 
so.  One  day  our  soul  is  covered  by  the  laughing 
beauty  of  hope,  and  faith,  and  love,  kindly 
thoughts,  heavenly  aspirations,  gracious  deeds — 
the  next  the  whole  crop  lies  smitten  and  with- 
ered. 

But  God's  love  does  not  alter  with  our  alter- 
ings,  or  change  with  our  changes.  Does  the 
mother's  love  fluctuate  with  the  moods  of  her 
sick  babe?  God  loves  constantly,  with  an  ar- 
dent, intense  affection,  which  delivers  from  dross 
the  heart  that  is  yielded  to  Him,  and  secures  at 
last  its  transformation  into  His  own  likeness.  If 
you  will  let  Him,  God  will  yet  love  you  right. 
Love  will  make  even  your  tough  nature  a  miracle 
of  beauty.  But  the  friction  of  the  lapidary's 
wheel  and  the  diamond  dust  may  hurt  you  a  lit- 
tle. Never  mind,  love  is  behind  it  all.  There 
never  was  a  time  when  He  did  not  love  you — 
His  mercy  is  from  everlasting ;  nor  a  time  when 
He  will  love  you  less — it  is  to  everlasting. 

When  at  last  you  have  found  your  centre  in 
God's  love,  a  joy  will  arise  within  you,  which 
will  pour  itself  forth  in  blessing,  and  you  will 
find  yourself  but  one  chorister  among  myriads  in 
heaven  and  earth.  It  will  appear  to  you  as 
though  angels  and  hosts  in  heaven,  together  with 
the  saints  of  all  the  dispensations  on  earth,  com- 
pose one  vast  choir.  But  none  has  any  right  to 
presume  on  this  mercy,  unless  the  condition  of 
godly  fear  has  been  fulfilled. 
103 


WTio  makcth  the  clouds  His  chariot. 

Psa.  civ.  3. 

AS  I  write  these  words  on  the  bosom  of  the 
broad  Atlantic,  there  is  little  for  the  eye  to  rest 
on  but  the  heaving  waters  through  which  we  are 
swiftly  cutting  our  path,  and  the  expanse  of  sky 
through  which  float  the  great  piles  of  cloud.  It 
is  pleasant  to  think  of  them  as  the  chariots  of 
God ;  the  heavens  beyond  are  the  curtains  of 
His  tent ;  this  wind  is  His  swift-stepping  mes- 
senger ;  this  exquisite  light  glancing  on  sky  and 
sea  is  His  garment,  hardly  dense  enough  to  veil 
His  visible  Presence.  O  Nature,  how  can  we  do 
other  than  love  thee,  since  the  Being  of  our  God 
is  so  closely  mingled  with  thy  hues  and  forms  ! 

How  often  God  visits  us  in  a  chariot  of  cloud  ! 
We  look  up  and  see  the  looming  darkness,  and 
forebode  evil.  But  if  we  could  look  down,  as 
from  a  seat  in  the  heavenlies,  we  should  behold 
our  God  sitting  within,  radiant  with  golden 
glory,  and  hastening  to  bless.  In  dry,  waterless 
lands,  the  rain-bearing  clouds  are  signally  the 
chariots  of  blessing. 

"  Ye  fearful  saints,  fresh  courage  take ; 
The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread 
Are  big  with  mercy,  and  shall  break 
In  blessings  on  your  head." 

When  the  soul,  says  one,  is  born  again  into 
the  Divine  light,  she  becometh  a  humble,  loving, 
winning  creature,  that  beareth  every  cross  and 
reproach,  that  regardeth  no  insult,  either  from 
man  or  devil,  that  placeth  her  love  and  con- 
fidence in  the  heart  of  God,  full  of  joy,  fed  by 
the  Word  of  God,  bathed  in  a  smile  of  heavenly 
triumph.  But  the  reason  for  this  is  in  the  abso- 
lute confidence  that  God  is  in  all  our  life,  and 
that 

"The  cloud  which  spreads  above. 

And  veiletli  love 

Itself  is  Love." 

104 


He  was  laid  in  chains  of  iron. 

Psa.  cv.  i8  (R.  v.). 

THE  margin  of  the  r.  v.  suggests  another  ren- 
dering :  '*  His  soul  entered  into  the  iron."  May 
we  not  yet  again  turn  the  sentence  round,  and 
say  that  the  iron  entered  into  his  soul?  When 
we  first  meet  him,  Joseph  is  a  tender,  yielding 
lad,  with  dreams  of  rule,  but  no  conspicuous 
power.  Yet  he  emerges  from  his  captivity  well 
qualified  to  take  the  helm  of  Egypt,  just  then 
sore  driven  and  tossed  by  tempest.  How  can 
this  striking  transformation  be  accounted  for, 
save  that  he  had  taken  iron  into  his  moral  nature 
through  his  painful  experiences  ? 

The  physician  often  prescribes  an  iron  tonic  for 
anaemic  patients :  and  what  iron  is  to  the  outer 
man  that  also  the  captivity  of  circumstances,  de- 
ferred hope,  and  anguish  of  soul  are  to  the  inner. 
You  have  been  fickle  and  uncertain  of  late ; 
dreaming  of  power,  but  powerless ;  yearning  for 
the  only  good,  but  greedy  of  trifles ;  you  must 
have  a  course  of  iron.  God  wants  Iron  Dukes, 
and  Iron  souls.  And  there  is  a  process  also  by 
which  He  can  turn  Iron  to  Steel.  It  means  high 
temperature,  sudden  transitions,  and  blasts  of 
heavenly  air. 

*'  If  call'd,  like  Abraham's  child,  to  climb 
The  hill  of  sacrifice, 
Some  angel  may  be  there  in  time — 
Deliverance  shall  arise ! 

"  Or  if  some  darker  lot  be  good, 
Oh,  teach  us  to  endure 
The  sorrow,  pain,  or  solitude 
That  make  the  spirit  pure  !  " 

I^ife  is  very  mysterious.  Indeed  it  would  be 
inexplicable  unless  we  believed  that  God  was 
preparing  us  for  scenes  and  ministries  that  lie  be- 
yond the  veil  of  sense  in  the  eternal  world,  where 
highly-tempered  spirits  will  be  required  for  spe- 
cial service. 

105 


He  gave  them  their  request ;  but  sent  leanness 
into  their  soul.  Fsa.  cvi.  ij. 

ISRAEL  insisted  on  being  fed,  not  with  manna 
only,  but  with  flesh.  The  people  connplained  of 
their  heaven-sent  food  as  too  light  and  unsatisfy- 
ing. Their  gross  appetite  demanded  some 
heavier  diet.  So  the  wind  brought  down  quails, 
flying  a  few  feet  from  the  ground,  within  easy 
reach  of  club  or  stick.  These  they  ate  raven- 
ously, voraciously,  greedily.  "The  people  rose 
up  all  that  day,  and  all  the  night,  and  all  the 
next  day,  and  gathered  the  quails."  Their  pam- 
pered bodies  were  gorged  with  food.  They  had 
their  desire,  but  their  souls  were  starved. 
"While  the  flesh  was  yet  between  their  teeth, 
ere  it  was  chewed,  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was 
kindled,  and  the  Lord  smote  the  people  with  a 
very  great  plague."  They  were  buried  in  the 
graves  of  lust. 

Generally  speaking,  the  soul  and  body  fare  in- 
versely. When  the  body  is  pampered  with  every 
luxury,  the  soul  starves.  The  soul  thrives  best 
when  the  body  cries  out.  Probably  we  all  have 
to  choose,  not  once  or  twice,  in  life,  whether  we 
will  have  the  full  satisfaction  of 'our  appetites, 
and  lean  souls;  or  be  lean  as  to  our  circum- 
stances, while  the  spirit  is  keen,  alert,  and  full  of 
vigorous  life. 

It  seems  as  though  the  shadow  of  the  eternal 
were  perpetually  hiding  from  us  the  eternal  itself. 
Those  that  snatch  at  the  shadow  miss  the  eter- 
nal ;  those  who  refuse  to  be  satisfied  with  the 
shadow,  reach  the  satisfying  vision  of  God  ;  and 
to  find  God  is  to  find  all  in  and  with  Him.  Oh, 
do  not  seek  to  impose  your  will  on  God  ;  do  not 
insist  on  anything  with  too  great  vehemence;  let 
God  choose.  Whenever  you  make  request  for 
things,  which  are  not  definitely  promised,  ask 
God  not  to  grant  them,  except  it  be  for  the  very 
best. 

106 


Even  they  shall  understand  the  loving-kindness 
of  the  Lord.  Psa.  cvU.  43. 

"  THE  Harvest  of  a  Quiet  Eye ''  is  the  fasci- 
nating title  of  a  fascinating  book.  When  the 
heart  is  quiet  in  God,  the  eye  looks  out  on  the 
scenes  of  nature  and  life  around  it,  and  detects 
everywhere,  even  where  to  ordinary  men  every 
appearance  seems  in  the  contrary  direction,  the 
loving-kindness  of  the  Lord.  As  life  advances, 
and  one  climbs  the  hill,  one  is  able  to  review  the 
path  by  which  life  has  been  directed  and  con- 
trolled. We  observe  with  the  wisdom  which  we 
have  obtained  by  long  experience,  and  we  under- 
stand God's  reasons  for  many  rebuffs,  denials, 
and  bitter  disappointments.  I  believe  that  we 
shall  one  day  turn  to  Him,  and  say,  when  we 
know  all,  ''Thou  couldst  not  have  done  other- 
wise.    We  would  not  have  wished  otherwise." 

Consider  the  successive  vignettes  of  this  psalm. 
Love  broods  over  the  weary  caravan  that  faints 
in  the  desert;  visits  the  prison-house  with  its 
captives ;  watches  by  our  beds  of  pain ;  notices 
each  lurch  of  the  tempest-driven  vessel;  brings 
the  weary  hosts  from  the  wilderness  into  the 
fruitful  soil. 

Love  is  quick  to  appreciate  love.  It  is  natural 
to  a  loving  heart  to  find  love  everywhere.  We 
view  all  things  in  hues  borrowed  from  the  heart. 
*'  He  that  loveth  knoweth  God,  for  God  is  love; 
he  that  loveth  not  hath  not  seen  Him,  neither 
known  Him."  Ask  therefore  for  a  baptism  unto 
the  love  of  God — this  will  make  you  quick  to 
perceive  and  understand  His  loving-kindness, 
where  others  miss  it.  Be  patient  also  to  await 
the  end  of  the  Lord.  And  when  still  the  vision 
tarries,  dare  to  believe  that  one  day,  when  you 
know  as  you  are  known,  you  shall  understand 
the  loving-kindness  that  underlay  your  darkest 
experiences. 

i07 


He  it  is  that  shall  tread  down  oi(r  adversaries, 

Psa.  cviii.  ij  (R.  v.). 

THIS  is  the  best  way  to  fight.  Keep  quietly 
in  fellowship  with  God ;  and  when  the  enemy 
draws  nigh,  look  up  to  your  ever-present  Friend, 
and  say,  "Now,  Lord,  now  tread  down  this  ad- 
versary." When  we  are  observing  the  conditions 
which  the  psalmist  enumerates  in  this  psalm,  it 
is  easy  to  do  this.     Notice  what  they  are. 

The  heart  must  be  fixed  in  an  attitude  of  con- 
secration and  devotion.  We  must  be  awake  right 
early,  for  fellowship  with  God,  putting  on  the 
armor  before  entering  into  the  battle.  We  must 
exalt  God  in  our  life  and  by  our  lips.  Then 
God  will  speak  in  His  holiness  in  our  behalf; 
and  when  He  is  for  us,  who  can  be  against  us  ? 
Hark  to  the  exultation  of  the  saint.  Shechem, 
Gilead,  Manasseh,  were  famous  for  their  luxuriant 
fertility,  and  typify  the  heavenly  graces  appro- 
priated by  faith.  Moab,  Edom,  Philistia,  are 
synonyms  for  fierce  hostility,  and  recall  our  be- 
setting sins,  our  virulent  foes,  which  fall  before 
us  when  we  are  in  alliance  with  the  Almighty. 

Micah  caught  sight  of  this  truth,  when  he  said, 
"The  Breaker  is  gone  up  before  them;  their 
King  is  passed  on  before  them,  and  the  Lord  at 
the  head  of  them."  Yes,  the  Shepherd  goes 
before  His  flock,  but  the  flock  must  follow  Him. 
We  must  not  be  content  with  the  knowledge  that 
all  things  are  ours  in  Christ,  but  must  enter  on 
their  possession  and  enjoyment.  Of  what  use  is 
it  to  know  that  mines  of  precious  ore  lie  under 
the  broad  acres  of  an  estate,  unless  they  are 
brought  to  the  surface  and  prepared  for  the  serv- 
ice of  man.  And  we  must  not  let  ourselves  be 
robbed  of  our  heritage  in  Christ,  through  the 
hatred  of  our  spiritual  foes,  when  He  waits  to 
tread  them  under  His  feet  and  ours. 
108 


Let  them  curse ^  but  bless  Thou. 

Psa.  cix.  28. 

THIS  is  the  Iscariotic  psalm.  The  Apostle 
Peter  quoted  it,  as  applying  to  Judas,  on  the  oc- 
casion of  electing  a  successor  to  the  traitor ;  but 
the  Church  has  no  desire  to  appropriate  against 
him  or  any  of  her  foes  the  awful  anathemas  of 
the  psalmist.  In  reading  them  we  must  remem- 
ber— first,  that  they  may  be  treated  as  predic- 
tions rather  than  imprecations,  not  let,  but  shall ; 
secondly,  that  those  earlier  days  had  much  of 
the  thunder  of  Sinai  and  little  enough  of  the 
tender  accents  of  Calvary  ;  thirdly,  that  it  seemed 
to  the  lovers  of  God  all  important  that  wicked- 
ness should  be  punished  in  this  life,  as  they  had 
very  dim  conceptions  of  the  next,  and  it  might 
appear,  otherwise,  that  God  was  indifferent  to 
moral  distinctions. 

Men  still  curse  us.  It  is  one  of  the  badges 
that  we  belong  to  the  Lord's  household,  that 
they  call  us  Beelzebub.  The  offence  of  the  Cross 
has  not  ceased  ;  and  if  none  curse  us,  we  may 
seriously  question  whether  we  are  following  in 
the  footsteps  of  the  Crucified.  We  must  be  bap- 
tized into  our  Saviour's  death,  and  die  with  Him 
to  all  fear  of  man.  Until  we  are  willing  to  be 
counted  the  offscouring  of  all  things,  we  have 
not  entered  into  the  true  significance  of  baptism 
into  His  death,  and  participation  in  His  risen 
life.  The  late  George  Miiller  said  that  he  made 
no  progress  till  he  came  to  this.  But  when  we 
are  willing  to  forfeit  our  character,  to  die  to  our 
reputation,  to  be  fools  for  Christ's  sake,  then 
God  begins  to  bless.  When  men  revile,  and 
persecute,  and  say  all  manner  of  evil  against  us 
falsely  for  Christ's  sake,  God  whispers  in  our 
heart,  *' Great  is  your  reward  in  heaven."  You 
never  will  know  how  near  and  tender  God  can 
be,  till  you  are  cast  out  by  your  kind. 
109 


Thy  people  shall  be  willing  in  the  day  of  Thy 
power.  Psa.  ex.  J. 

THE  literal  rendering  of  the  Hebrew  is  pref- 
erable :  "  Thy  people  shall  be  free-will  offerings 
in  the  day  of  Thy  power."  When  we  recall  the 
quotations  of  the  first  verse  of  this  psalm  in  the 
New  Testament,  we  have  no  difficulty  in  under- 
standing what  is  meant  by  the  day  of  His  power. 
It  is  beyond  doubt  the  day  of  His  ascension,  of 
His  enthronement  at  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  advent  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Whensoever  the  Holy  Spirit  is  supreme  in  a 
church  there  will  be  a  free-will  offering  of  young 
hearts  and  lives.  Clad  in  the  priestly  garb  of 
stainless  purity,  pouring  forth  from  the  womb  of 
life's  young  morning,  they  will  scatter  them- 
selves over  the  weary  earth  like  myriads  of  dew- 
drops  on  withered  vegetation.  The  Priest-King 
has  a  wonderful  fascination  for  youthful  volun- 
teers ;   and  as  He  is  so  are  they. 

Have  you  become  a  free-will  offering?  There 
is  every  claim  for  your  entire  and  devoted  serv- 
ice. You  have  been  already  included  in  the 
Father's  gift  to  the  Son;  but  you  must  come  to 
Him  for  yourself.  The  world  has  yet  to  learn 
what  God  can  do  with  a  soul  that  is  entirely 
given  up  to  Him.  Let  Him  have  your  life  to 
shape  and  mould  it,  to  inspire  and  infill,  to  send 
forth  on  His  errands,  to  commission  for  His  serv- 
ice. There  are  no  pressed  men  in  our  Master's 
army — all  are  volunteers.  Offer  your  will  to 
God ;  say  you  are  willing  to  be  made  willing : 
He  can  make  you  willing  in  this  day  of  His 
power,  as  iron  is  bent  in  the  fierce  flame. 

«'  In  full  and  glad  surrender  we  give  ourselves  to  Thee, 
Thine  utterly,  and  only,  and  evermore  to  be  ! 
O  Son  of  God,  who  lovest  us,  we  will  be  Thine  alone, 
And  all  we  are,  and  all  we  have,  shall  henceforth  be 
Thine  own!" 

110 


The  works  of  the  Lord  are  great,  soi^ght  out  of 
all  them  that  have  pleasure  therein.     Psa.  cxi.  2. 

THE  merchant  goes  forth  to  seek  goodly  pearls. 
Go  forth,  O  Christian  heart,  to  discover  fresh 
jewels  in  thy  Saviour's  character.  You  will  find 
them  in  meditation,  in  converse  with  other  souls, 
but  mainly  in  the  reverent  investigation  of  Scrip- 
ture. 

The  theme  of  the  Bible  is — the  works  of  the 
Lord.  Its  constant  affirmation  is  that  they  are 
great ;  that  His  work  is  honor  and  majesty;  that 
He  hath  made  His  wonderful  works  to  be  re- 
membered ;  that  He  shows  His  people  the  power 
of  His  works ;  and  that  the  works  of  His  hands 
are  truth  and  judgment.  Where  better  could  we 
study  or  seek  them  out  ? 

Consider  God's  works  in  Creation,  as  scene 
after  scene  is  unfolded  in  the  first  chapter  of 
Genesis ;  in  destruction,  as  when  the  Deluge 
swept  the  earth;  in  redemption,  when  He  led 
His  people  out  of  Egypt ;  in  judgment,  when  He 
handed  His  people  over  to  their  enemies;  in  the 
holy  Incarnation,  the  Passion,  the  Resurrection 
of  Jesus,  and  in  the  coming  of  the  Paraclete.  Seek 
out  these  great  and  wonderful  works ;  trace  the 
references  made  to  them  in  every  part  of  Scrip- 
ture ;  find  a  holy  pleasure  in  reviewing  them  in 
all  their  wealth  of  significance. 

Kepler,  when  he  first  turned  his  telescope  to 
clustered  worlds,  exclaimed,  "I  am  thinking 
over  again  the  first  thoughts  of  God."  Would 
that  the  ecstasy  of  the  ardent  student  of  nature 
might  fill  our  hearts  as  we  direct  our  thought  to 
the  great  works  of  our  Saviour-God.  But  our  at- 
titude, like  His,  must  be  one  of  reverence,  pa- 
tience, and  dependence  on  the  revealing  Spirit. 
Probably  this  will  be  our  employment  in  eternity; 
ever  passing  into  deeper  and  fuller  appreciation 
of  the  works  of  God,  and  breaking  into  more 
rapturous  songs. 

Ill 


He  shall  not  be  afraid  of  evil  tidings  :  his  heart 
is  fired y  trusting  in  the  Lord.  Psa.  cxii.  7. 

THERE  cannot  be  evil  tidings  to  the  soul 
which  has  fixed  its  trust  in  the  Lord.  Every 
messenger  that  comes  post-haste  into  its  presence 
with  despatches  brings  tidings  of  what  has  been 
permitted  or  done  by  our  Father ;  and  nothing 
which  is  of  His  ordering  or  permitting  can 
really  injure  us.  Tidings  !  tidings !  they  are 
always  pouring  in,  by  letter,  post-card,  and  tele- 
gram. They  are  presented  in  the  contents  bills 
of  every  newspaper,  and  cried  by  the  newsboys 
in  the  streets.  But  the  child  of  God  opens  each 
buff-colored  envelope  with  untrembling  hands, 
and  scans  the  newspaper  columns  with  unblench- 
ing  eyes.  No  tidings  can  be  evil  to  him ;  his 
heart  is  fixed,  trusting  in  the  Lord. 

But  does  not  the  Christian  suffer  anguish  and 
pain,  as  others  do?  Is  he  stoical  and  unim- 
passioned,  dull  in  his  emotions,  unsympathetic  in 
his  affections?  Not  so;  but  he  refuses  to  judge 
things  by  their  appearances.  He  knows  that  all 
things  must  be  working  for  good  on  his  behalf: 
in  the  hieroglyphics  he  detects  his  Father's 
handwriting ;  in  the  mysterious  figure  standing 
on  the  shore,  veiled  in  morning  mist,  he  beholds 
the  Lord  who  died  for  him.  If  tidings  were  to 
come  to  you  to-day  of  disease,  loss,  bereavement, 
death,  they  could  not  be  evil  if  your  heart  dares 
to  maintain  a  fixed  trust  in  God ;  for  such  trust 
robs  death  of  its  sting,  and  the  grave  of  its 
victory.  I  cannot  understand,  but  I  can  trust 
Him.  Like  the  fabled  philosopher's  stone,  faith 
turns  all  metals  to  gold. 

"  Know  well,  my  soul,  God's  hand  controls 
Whate'er  thou  fearest ; 
Round  Him  in  calmest  music  rolls 
Whate'er  thou  hearest." 

113 


He  maketh  the  barren  woman  to  keep  house y  and 
to  be  a  joyful  mother  of  children.        Fsa.  cxUi.  9. 

THIS  is  an  evident  reference  to  Hannah's 
psalm  of  thanksgiving,  when  she  had  born 
Samuel,  and  God  had  taken  away  her  reproach. 
Her  story,  and  these  words,  should  be  a  great 
comfort  to  those  who  have  never  been  used  in 
soul-winning.  Remember,  too,  how  Sarah  re- 
ceived strength  by  faith  to  bear  a  child,  because 
she  counted  Him  faithful  that  promised.  God 
can  make  barren  souls  authors  of  life  to  thousands. 
These  are  the  conditions  : — 

Be  content,  like  Hannah,  to  cherish  a  sorrow- 
ful spirit.  Weep  before  the  Lord.  Let  your 
request  be  poured  out  before  God  at  Shiloh,  with 
the  moving  lips,  though  the  voice  be  inaudible. 
Ask  of  God  with  strong  cryings  and  tears,  that 
He  would  still  the  taunts  of  your  adversary. 
Souls  are  only  born  to  those  who  cannot  live 
without  them. 

Next,  look  away  from  all  creature  help  to 
God's  faithful  promise,  and  believe  that  He  can 
make  you  to  become  spiritually  productive. 
Claim  this  of  Him.  Believe  that  of  stones.  He 
can  raise  up  children.  Hold  Him  to  His  own 
word.  Remind  Him  of  His  promise.  "  I  will 
make  thee  exceeding  fruitful." 

Hannah  promised  that  her  child  should  be 
given  to  the  Lord  ;  and  Samuel,  when  old  enough, 
was  brought  to  the  Temple  in  pursuance  of  her 
vow.  We  are  too  apt  to  take  the  glory  and  credit 
of  soul-winning,  instead  of  acknowledging  that, 
as  we  could  not  bear  them  apart  from  God,  so 
we  may  not  keep  them  when  they  are  given. 
Those  who,  like  Hannah,  give  their  Samuels  to 
God,  like  her  can  also  break  forth  and  sing, 
"  My  heart  exulteth  in  the  Lord,  mine  horn  is 
exalted  in  the  Lord ;  because  I  rejoice  in  Thy 
salvation." 

113 


Which    turned    the   flint    into    a  fountain    of 
waters.  Psa.  cxiv.  8. 

THIS  is  a  miracle  which  we  all  need  to  have 
wrought  in  our  experience.  Our  heart  is  flint, 
our  eyes  are  dry,  our  souls  fail  to  respond  with 
tears  and  regrets  to  the  love  of  the  Pierced  One, 
and  to  the  indictment  that  charges  us  with  His 
death.  There  is  little  brokenness  of  heart  among 
God's  children ;  and  it  is  a  sad  fact  that  con- 
viction of  sin  is  a  comparatively  rare  experience 
among  the  ungodly.  This  used  not  to  be  so. 
We  have  read  of  whole  communities  being  swept 
with  paroxysms  of  grief  and  compunction  under 
the  preaching  of  a  Finney.  His  look  on  one 
occasion  at  a  scoffing  girl  smote  her  to  the  soul, 
and  led  to  so  deep  a  work  of  grace  that  a  whole 
factory,  and  then  a  village,  were  filled  with 
mourning,  I  was  told  of  a  revival  breaking  out 
in  a  church,  and  many  hearts  being  made  soft 
because  a  band  of  godly  elders  confessed  their 
unfaithfulness  and  shortcomings. 

Moses  struck  the  rock  of  flint  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  wanderings ;  and  was  to  speak 
to  it,  at  their  close.  But  in  either  case  the  eff'ect 
was  identical ;  the  water  gushed  from  its  heart  of 
rock.  Use  Thy  cross,  O  Son  of  God,  Lord  of  the 
House  in  which  Moses  was  but  a  servant,  and 
smite  these  hard  hearts,  that  tears  may  flow 
freely  forth ;  or  speak  the  word.  It  is  said  that 
every  building  has  a  chord,  to  strike  which  makes 
it  tremble  to  its  base.  Surely  there  is  a  chord,  a 
note,  a  tone,  before  which  our  hearts  would  rend, 
giving  Him  tears  for  His  sorrow,  anguish  for  His 
pain  ! 

*'The  sacrifices  of  God  are  a  broken  heart: 
a  broken  and  contrite  heart,  O  God,  Thou  wilt 
not  despise." 

"  A  broken  heart,  a  fount  of  tears, 
Ask,  and  it  shall  not  be  denied," 

114 


They  that  make  them  shall  he  like  unto  them. 

Psa.  cxv.  8.  (R.  v.). 

THAT  men  become  like  their  ideals  is  a  com- 
monplace ;  and  that  the  heathen  resemble  their 
deities  is  notorious.  Men  first  impute  to  their 
deities  their  own  vices,  as  the  Greeks  and  Ro- 
mans to  the  gods  and  goddesses  of  their 
Pantheon  ;  and  then  endeavor  to  honor  them  by- 
imitation. 

But,  in  another  sense,  this  is  gloriously  true  of 
our  relation  to  the  Lord  Jesus.  If  we  make  Him 
our  ideal,  and  trust  Him  with  all  our  hearts.  His 
beauty  shall  dawn  upon  our  face,  and  we  shall 
be  changed  into  His  image,  from  glory  to  glory. 
We  know  that  when  He  shall  be  manifested 
finally  Ave  shall  be  like  Him,  for  we  shall  see 
Him  as  He  is;  and,  in  a  measure,  this  process 
of  transformation  is  taking  place  in  those  who 
see  Him  by  the  eye  of  faith,  and  are  becoming 
like  Him. 

We  are  doing  more  by  our  life  than  by  our 
words.  We  cannot  always  speak  for  Jesus,  but 
we  may  always  live  for  Him.  Of  a  young  girl, 
lately  gone  forth  as  a  missionary,  who  cannot 
speak  a  word  of  the  language  of  the  foreign  land 
to  which  she  has  gone,  I  was  told  the  other  day 
that  her  life,  or  rather  the  life  of  Jesus  in  her, 
was  exerting  a  far  wider  influence  than  she  knew. 
This  is  the  Divine  method  :  look  and  live ;  trust 
and  be  transfigured ;  abide  in  Him,  and  He 
shall  abide  in  you. 

Auskar,  a  missionary  to  the  Scandinavians  in 
the  ninth  century,  when  asked  if  he  could  per- 
form miracles,  replied:  "If  God  were  indeed 
to  grant  that  power  to  me,  I  would  only  ask  that 
I  might  exhibit  the  miracle  of  a  holy  life."  But 
this  is  the  most  difficult  of  all.  It  is  easier  to 
die  once  for  Jesus,  than  to  live  always  for  Him. 
Yet  God's  grace  is  sufficient.  He  will  keep  us 
as  stars  in  His  right  hand. 


Then  called  I  t(p07i  the  Name  of  the  Lord. 

Psa.  cxvi.  4. 

WHAT  could  we  do  without  the  resource  of 
prayer?  When  compassed  with  the  cords  of 
death,  and  held  by  trouble  and  sorrow,  what 
help  would  there  be  for  us  who  eschew  the 
methods  of  self-deliverance  which  the  men  of 
the  world  do  not  scruple  to  employ,  if  we  might 
not  betake  ourselves  to  our  knees  ? 

«'  Nay,  but  much  rather  let  me  late  returning, 

Bruised  of  my  brethren,  wounded  from  within, 
Stoop  with  sad  countenance  and  blushes  burning, 
Bitter  with  weariness  and  sick  with  sin. 

«'  Straight  to  Thy  presence  get  me  and  reveal  it, 
Nothing  ashamed  of  tears  upon  Thy  feet ; 
Show  the  sore  wound,  and  beg  Thine  hand  to  heal  it ; 
Pour  Thee  the  bitter,  pray  Thee  for  the  sweet." 

Only  let  us  never  forget  the  immense  impor- 
tance of  those  five  great  **  ifs  "  : — 

John  XV.  7,  which  touches  our  life  in  Him, 
and  His  in  us,  in  unremitted  fellowship. 

Matt,  xviii.  19,  which  touches  our  life  with 
others,  that  must  be  clear  as  crystal. 

Matt.  xvii.  20,  which  concerns  the  vigor  and 
health  of  our  own  soul-life. 

I  John  v.  14,  15,  which  demands  that  we 
know  God  well. 

John  xiv.  14,  which  winnows  out  from  prayer 
all  that  is  inconsistent  with  the  name  of  Jesus. 

Oh  for  the  deep-dwelling  life,  spent  in  the 
secret  place,  where  earth's  voices  grow  faint,  and 
God's  clear.  Such  a  life  is  a  perpetual  appeal  to 
God's  nature  for  succor — an  appeal  which 
awakens  an  instant  response.  ''Call  unto  Me, 
and  I  will  answer  thee ;  and  will  shew  thee  great 
things,  and  fenced  in,  which  thou  knowest  not." 
116 


Oh^  pi-aise  the  Lordy  all  ye  nations  ! 

Psa,  cxvii.  i, 

THIS  is  an  unwonted  summons  from  Jewish 
lips.  For  the  most  part  the  Jews  looked  with 
little  sympathy  on  their  Gentile  neighbors,  and 
had  no  desire  that  they  should  laud  Jehovah, 
save  as  they  became  proselytes  of  Judaism.  But 
where  the  love  of  God  is  strong  in  the  heart,  it 
overleaps  the  bounds  of  custom  and  racial  preju- 
dice, and  yearns  that  all  the  world  should  know 
and  love  the  Saviour. 

"  If  all  the  world  my  Saviour  knew. 
Sure  all  the  world  would  love  Him  too." 

We  all  need  more  of  the  emancipating  power 
of  the  love  of  Christ,  to  thaw  the  icy  chains  that 
hang  around  us,  and  bid  words  flow  freely  from 
our  lips  to  those  whom  we  had  been  accustomed 
to  look  on  as  outside  the  range  of  our  influence. 
Oh  for  the  passionate  desire  that  God  should  be 
universally  praised  and  loved  !  Oh  to  be  willing 
to  be  accounted  fools  and  enthusiasts,  if  only  we 
may  start  to  praise,  lips  that  otherwise  had  re- 
mained sealed  and  dumb  !  Are  we  doing  all  we 
can  to  kindle  the  nations  to  praise?  They  can- 
not praise  Him  whom  they  do  not  know.  It  is 
mere  hypocrisy  to  bid  them  praise  Him,  if  we 
have  never  sought  to  spread,  by  lip  or  gift,  the 
mercy  and  truth  revealed  in  Jesus  our  Lord.  Oh 
that  each  might  ponder  the  paradox  ! — 

«« Christ,  alone,  can  save  this  world ; 
But  Christ  cannot  save  this  world,  alone." 

What  a  lesson  is  given  us  by  Lough  Fook,  a 
Chinese  Christian,  who,  fifteen  years  ago,  was  so 
touched  with  the  condition  of  the  coolies  in 
Demerara,  as  to  sell  himself  into  slavery  that  he 
might  win  them  for  Christ.  He  was  the  means 
of  two  hundred  joining  the  Church  before  he 
died,  five  years  afterward. 
117 


Bind  the  sacrifice  with  cords,  eve?i  iifito  the  horns 
of  the  altar.  Psa.  cxviU.  zy. 

IS  not  this  altar  His  Cross  ?  Shall  we  not  ask 
to  be  bound  to  it,  that  we  may  never  be  able  to 
start  back  from  our  attitude  of  consecration  ? 
There  are  times  when  life  is  full  of  roseate  light, 
and  we  choose  the  Cross ;  at  other  times,  when 
the  sky  is  grey,  we  shrink  from  it.  It  is  well  to 
be  bound.  Wilt  Thou  bind  us,  most  blessed 
Spirit,  and  enamor  us  with  the  Cross,  and  let  us 
never  leave  it  ?  Bind  us  with  the  scarlet  cord  of 
redemption,  and  the  golden  cord  of  love,  and 
the  silver  cord  of  Advent-hope :  so  will  we  not 
go  back  from  it,  or  wish  for  another  lot,  than  to 
be  the  humble  partners  with  our  Lord  in  His 
pain  and  sorrow. 

The  horns  of  the  altar  invite  thee.  Wilt  thou 
come?  Wilt  thou  desist  from  the  thinking, 
speaking,  and  willing  of  thine  own  selfhood? 
Wilt  thou  place  the  Cross  between  thyself  and 
the  world  that  entices  thee  ?  Wilt  thou  dwell 
ever  in  a  spirit  of  resigned  humility,  and  give 
thyself  to  continual  repentance  and  tears?  Wilt 
thou  love  the  Cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  and  the 
contempt  of  the  world,  and  take  them  as  thy 
meat  and  drink?  Then  thou  shalt  know  the  life 
that  passes  through  death,  and  is  life  indeed. 

How  precious  are  the  last  lines  that  David  Liv- 
ingstone penned  in  his  diary,  before  his  boys 
found  him  kneeling  beside  his  bed,  dead,  though 
in  the  attitude  of  prayer,  the  candle  burning  be- 
side him:  "My  Jesus,  my  King,  my  Life,  my 
All ;  to  Thee  I  again  dedicate  myself."  So  bind 
each  of  us  with  the  cords  of  love,  and  the  bands 
of  a  man. 

Remember     Tholuck's     motto,     which     was 
adopted   by  Count   Zinzendorf:     <'I  have  one 
passion,  and  it  is  He — only  He." 
118 


Teach  me  Thy  statutes. 

Fsa,  cxix.  12. 

THIS  petition  occurs  many  times  in  the  course 
of  this  psalm.  It  is  urged  on  many  pleas  :  be- 
cause God  is  blessed,  and  therefore  must  want  to 
lift  us  to  share  His  blessedness ;  because  the  sup- 
pliant desires  to  complete  the  declaration  of 
God's  ways  to  others ;  because  he  is  eager  to  turn 
them  into  songs ;  because  the  earth  is  so  full  of 
Divine  mercy ;  because  God  is  good,  and  does 
good.  Take  this  petition  as  your  guide,  and  fol- 
low it  through  the  psalm,  and  especially  trace 
that  recurring  word  statutes,  and  you  will  see 
how  the  whole  of  this  splendid  ode  crystallizes 
around  it. 

There  is  a  heavenly  wisdom,  which  can  only  be 
acquired  from  the  lips  of  the  Greatest  of  Teach- 
ers, at  whose  feet  Mary  sat.  It  is  not  to  be  ac- 
quired by  the  intellect,  but  by  the  heart.  It  will 
never  come  by  emulation,  ambition,  or  pride ; 
but  to  those  who  live  a  life  of  perfect  love,  of 
deep  humility,  and  of  fellowship  with  the  Father, 
and  with  His  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

Sometimes  the  pupil  wearies  of  the  lesson. 
Winsome  as  the  Teacher  is,  the  bench  is  hard, 
and  the  horn-book  difficult.  Outside,  the  sum- 
mer land  attracts  with  scent  of  flower,  hum  of 
bee,  and  frisking  squirrel.  Yet  God  loves  us  too 
well  to  let  us  off  till  our  lesson  is  learned.  He 
often  turns  it  back.  But  some  day  these  statutes 
shall  become  our  songs  in  the  house  of  our  pil- 
grimage. 

When  Elizabeth  Fry  died  at  sixty-five,  after 
such  a  life  of  Christian  philanthropy  as  few  have 
ever  known — for  half  a  century  she  had  been 
able  to  affirm  that  she  had  never  awakened  from 
her  sleep,  in  sickness  or  in  health,  by  day  or  by 
night,  without  her  first  waking  thought  being, 
"How  best  may  I  serve  my  Lord  ?  " 
119 


Woe  is  me,  that  I  sojourn  in  Meshech,  that  I 
dwell  aftiong  the  tents  of  Kedar.  Psa.  cxx.j  (r.  v.). 

IT  is  a  bitter  experience  to  have  to  live  where 
there  is  no  sympathy,  but  carping  criticism  and 
incessant  innuendo.  A  pure-minded  friend  was 
recounting  to  me  the  other  day  the  anguish  he 
suffered  perpetually,  because  his  associates, 
knowing  how  acutely  he  suffered  from  the  least 
suggestions  of  impurity,  chose  to  assault  his  ears 
continually  with  abominable  expressions.  There 
are  souls  which  have  long  had  their  dwelling  with 
those  that  hate  peace.  To  their  least  sigh  war 
is  the  immediate  response. 

O  lily  among  thorns,  this  is  no  new  experi- 
ence !  Thy  Lord  hath  been  through  these  paths 
before  thee ;  see  the  bent  twigs  which  prove  that 
He  has  passed  this  way.  But  thy  loneliness  can 
never  be  quite  as  sorrowful  as  His,  for  thou  hast 
always  Him.  And  remember,  there  is  a  com- 
pensation, in  that  the  strict  scrutiny  of  thy  foes 
makes  thee  ever  so  much  more  watchful  and 
prayerful,  and  drives  thee  oftener  to  the  bosom 
of  God.  One  declared  to  me  lately  that  he  had 
found  it  easier  to  live  a  holy  life  in  a  City  ware- 
house than  in  a  Divinity  college.  Perhaps  we 
gain  much  more  than  we  know  from  jealous  op- 
position and  criticism. 

"  Oft  in  Life's  stillest  shade  reclining, 
In  desolation  unrepining, 
Without  a  hope  on  earth  to  find 
A  mirror  in  an  answering  mind, 
Meek  souls  there  are  who  little  deem 
Their  daily  strife  an  Angel's  theme." 

But  as  the  saintly  Samuel  Rutherford  wrote : 
*'The  Cross  of  Christ  is  the  sweetest  burden  that 
I  ever  bore  :  it  is  such  a  burden  as  are  wings  to  a 
bird,  and  sails  to  a  ship,  to  carry  me  forward  to 
my  desired  haven." 

120 


Shall  I  lift  up  mine  eyes  unto  the  inountains  ? 

Psa.  cxxi,  I  [marg,). 

IT  is  not  high  enough  to  look  to  mountains. 
They  are  deeply  rooted  and  permanent  in  their 
sockets.  They  rise  like  the  pillars  of  heaven. 
Rivulets  gush  from  their  sides,  vineyards  drape 
their  terraced  slopes,  eternal  snows  cap  them  with 
crowns  of  unsullied  purity.  The  ancients  thought 
that  the  gods  had  chosen  them  for  their  home,  as 
on  Parnassus  or  Olympus.  To  their  towering 
steeps  the  eyes  of  their  votaries  were  often 
directed  to  catch  the  first  symptoms  of  descend- 
ing help. 

But  the  psalmist  forbears  to  look  to  soaring 
mountains  for  his  help.  He  lifts  his  eyes  above 
and  beyond,  to  the  Lord  which  made  heaven  and 
earth.     Thence  shall  his  help  come. 

We  are  all  tempted  to  look  at  the  mountains,  to 
the  creature  rather  than  the  Creator;  to  wealth, 
talent,  or  influence ;  to  things  and  people  be- 
neath the  heavens,  instead  of  to  Him  who  dwells 
above  the  heavens,  in  His  infinite  majesty,  and  to 
whom  all  power  is  given  in  heaven  and  earth. 

O  unslumbering  Keeper  !  O  sleepless  Watcher  I 
Shade  from  heat,  shelter  from  cold,  protector 
from  assault,  transformer  of  ill  to  good,  escort 
when  we  go  out,  home  when  we  return  !  Thou 
art  the  complement  of  our  need.  We  are  con- 
tent to  suffer  the  loss  of  all  things,  to  find  them 
all  in  Thee.  And  therefore  we  betake  our- 
selves to  Thy  shadow  till  life's  calamities  be 
overpast. 

"  Nor  can  the  vain  toil  cease, 
Till  in  the  shadowy  maze  of  life  we  meet 
One  who  can  guide  our  aching,  wayward  feet 

To  find  Himself,  our  Way,  our  Life,  our  Peace ! 
In  Him  the  long  Unrest  is  soothed  and  stilled  ; 
Our  hearts  are  filled  !  " 

121 


For  viy  brethren  and  companions^  sakes,  I  will 
now  say,  Peace  be  within  thee.  Psa.  cxxii.  8. 

WHAT  the  earthly  Jerusalem  was  to  the  Jews, 
that  the  holy  Church,  the  Bride  of  the  Lamb,  the 
heavenly  Jerusalem,  which  descends  from  God 
out  of  heaven,  and  includes  within  its  limits  all 
holy  souls,  is  to  us.  Let  us  pray  for  its  peace 
and  prosperity;  let  us  esteem  them  above  our 
own  good,  and  let  us  be  glad  if  our  feet  stand 
within  its  gates. 

When  the  tribes  of  the  Lord  go  up  to  give 
thanks  at  the  remembrance  of  His  holiness,  let  us 
go  with  them.  We  may  be  alone  in  some  dis- 
tant land,  or  traversing  the  ocean  in  the  swift 
steamer,  bearing  us  from  the  land  of  religious  ob- 
servances, or  confined  to  the  sick  chamber  :  but 
let  us  never  forget  that  we  belong  to  the  holy 
mystical  Church  ;  let  us  ascend  the  staircases  of 
prayer  and  praise ;  let  us  mingle  our  rivulet  of 
adoring  love  in  the  mighty  torrent  that  is  setting 
in  toward  the  throne  of  God  and  the  Lamb ;  for 
we  come  to  the  City  of  God,  to  an  innumerable 
company  of  angels,  to  the  spirits  of  just  men 
made  perfect,  and  to  the  blood  of  sprinkling  that 
speaketh  better  things  than  Abel's.  Wherever 
my  brethren  meet,  in  whatever  section  of  the 
Church  on  earth,  so  long  as  they  belong  to  the 
one  Church,  the  Body  of  Christ,  nothing  shall 
stay  me  from  wishing  them  prosperity  and  peace. 
They  may  not  recognize  me  here,  but  five 
minutes  in  Heaven  will  do  away  with  all  these 
earthly  estrangements. 

When  the  Church  is  at  peace  within  herself, 
she  flourishes  best.  *'So  the  Church,"  we  are 
told,  *' throughout  all  Judea,  and  Galilee,  and 
Samaria,  had  peace,  and  was  edified."  Peace  is 
the  condition  of  up-building  and  multiplication  : 
but  it  is  only  consistent  with  Truth  and  Righteous- 
ness. First  Righteousness,  then  Peace,  then 
Prosperity. 

122 


Unto  Thee  do  I  lift  up  mine  eyes,  O  Thou  that 
sittest  in  the  heavens.  Psa.  cxxiii.  i  (r.  v.). 

THESE  exquisite  Songs  of  Ascents,  prepared 
for  the  bands  of  worshippers  as  they  went  up 
from  distant  parts  of  the  land  to  the  great  annual 
festivals,  are  very  precious  to  pilgrim-souls,  as 
from  many  lands  and  ages  they  are  gathering 
home  to  the  throne  of  the  exalted  Lamb,  who 
sits  at  the  right  hand  of  God  the  Father  in  the 
highest  heavens.  And  as  we  journey,  we  lift  up 
our  eyes  to  His  dear  face — the  face  that  once  was 
wet  with  tears  and  dewed  with  bloody  sweat,  but 
which  ere  long  will  shine  as  the  morning  when 
He  is  anointed  with  the  oil  of  joy  above  His  fel- 
lows. Here  is  the  Old  Testament  counterpart  of 
the  New  Testament  attitude — looking  off  unto 
Jesus. 

The  slave  at  the  table  kept  the  eye  steadfastly 
fixed  on  the  hand  of  master  or  mistress,  to  obey 
its  least  sign  and  to  make  it  needless  to  speak. 
Keep  your  eye  on  the  pierced  hand,  child  of 
God  ;  watch  its  smallest  indication  ;  wait  pa- 
tiently until  it  give  some  sign.  We  have  too 
long  acted  on  our  own  initiative;  let  us  wait  on 
our  exalted  Lord  for  the  indication  of  His  will. 
Let  us  not  look  askance  at  the  proud,  with  their 
contempt,  or  on  the  heaving  billows  of  the 
World's  restless  strife ;  but  away  to  those  azure 
depths  and  beyond,  far  above  all  principality, 
power,  might,  and  dominion,  where  God  hath 
exalted  Him  to  be  a  Prince  and  a  Saviour.  Let 
His  least  gesture  be  our  law. 

One  day  we  shall  follow  the  direction  of  our 
eyes.  Whilst  we  gaze,  we  shall  be  changed ; 
and  as  we  are  changed  we  shall  arise  to  sit  with 
Him  on  His  throne. 

«*  Break  up  the  heavens,  O  Lord !  and  far 
Through  all  yon  starlight  keen, 
Draw  me,  Thy  bride — a  glittering  star 
In  raiment  white  and  clean  !  " 

123 


Jf  it  had  not  been  the  Lord  who  was  on  our  side. 

Psa.  cxxiv.  I. 
HERE  is  an  If  which  cannot  be  an  //.  It  is 
never  a  matter  of  uncertainty  whether  the  Lord 
will  be  on  our  side  or  not.  For  the  Lord  Jesus 
in  His  incarnation  and  death  has  taken  His  place 
beside  us  forevermore.  He  is  always  on  our  side, 
so  long  as  we  keep  His  paths  and  walk  in  His 
ways. 

«  Though  unperceived  by  mortal  sense, 
Faith  sees  Him  always  near, 
A  Guide,  a  Guardian,  a  Defence  ; 
Then  what  have  you  to  fear  ?  " 

There  are  in  all  human  lives  hours  of  over- 
powering anxiety,  when  we  feel  as  though  it  were 
impossible  to  live  another  moment — exposed  to 
danger,  separated  from  dear  ones,  not  knowing 
what  an  hour  may  bring  forth.  Then,  as  you 
look  up,  you  find  that  the  Lord  is  beside  you,  , 
sharing  your  anxieties,  and  affording  you  His  in- 
violable protection.  You  cannot  descry  Him  by 
the  eye  of  sense,  but  you  know  Him  to  be  there, 
and  neither  man  nor  devil  can  prevail  against 
you. 

When  we  look  back  on  life,  as  the  psalmist 
does  here,  we  become  aware  of  the  myriad  in- 
stances of  Divine  protection.  We  were  not  so 
vividly  conscious  at  the  time;  we  might  even 
have  had  fits  of  depression  and  counted  ourselves 
bereft.  But  if  we  narrowly  consider  the  perils 
from  which  we  have  been  rescued,  when  we 
were  about  to  be  swallowed  up  quick,  we  become 
convinced  that  He  was  there.  In  life  and  death 
and  judgment,  Jesus,  your  Advocate,  will  ever 
stand  at  your  side  and  silence  all  who  would 
condemn.  So  that  with  good  courage  you  may 
say,  ''The  Lord  is  my  helper;  I  will  not  fear: 
what  shall  man  or  devil  do  unto  me  !  " 

"  Cast  all  your  care  on  God!  That  anchor 
holds/'' 

124 


The  Lord  is  round  about  His  people. 

Fsa.  ex  XV.  2,    ! 

IT  is  a  beautiful  conception.  Around  the 
chosen  city  the  mountains  stood  like  sentinels, 
leaving  no  part  without  its  barrier.  So  is  God 
around  us,  and  this  enables  us  to  understand  how 
His  permissions  may  become  His  appointments. 
It  is  easy  to  accept  pain  and  disappointment 
which  come  to  us  direct  from  His  hand ;  but  not 
so  when  they  approach  us  from  the  plotting  and 
malevolence  of  a  Judas  or  Shimei.  It  is  impos- 
sible, however,  to  arrive  at  a  settled  peace,  so 
long  as  we  make  a  distinction  between  the  afflic- 
tions which  come  to  us  from  the  Divine,  and 
those  which  visit  us  from  the  human ;  and,  in- 
deed, the  distinction  is  untenable.  For  the  as- 
saults of  our  foes  are  at  least  permitted  by  God, 
and  His  permissions  are  His  appointments. 

This  will  become  evident,  if  we  clearly  appre- 
hend that  God  is  round  about  us,  as  a  rampart  to 
the  city,  as  an  envelope  to  a  letter,  as  the  atmos- 
phere to  the  configuration  of  our  bodies.  If 
then  He  chooses.  He  can  pass  off  from  us  any 
arrow  that  might  harm  us ;  but  if  He  opens  His 
environing  protection,  so  as  to  let  it  pass  through 
to  us,  by  the  time  it  has  traversed  the  atmosphere 
of  His  care,  it  has  become  His  will  for  us.  Put 
God  between  yourself  and  everything.  Many 
put  their  anxieties  between  them  and  God,  and 
see  God  as  the  sun  through  a  fog ;  mind  that  you 
put  God  between  yourself  and  the  entire  world 
of  men  and  things. 

In  a  city  on  the  Continent  the  custodians  keep 
the  regalia  without  iron  bars,  on  what  seems  to  be 
an  open  table — but  none  would  dare  to  touch 
one  jewel,  for  all  around  a  powerful  stream  of 
electricity  is  perpetually  being  poured.  Invisi- 
ble, but  potent !  Such  is  the  encompassing  pres- 
ence of  God. 

125 


They  that  sow  in  tears  shall  reap  in  joy. 

Psa.  cxxvi.J. 

SOME  husbandmen  steep  their  seeds  before 
they  sow  them.  It  is  well  when  Christian  work- 
ers steep  their  lessons  and  addresses  with  their 
prayers  and  tears.  It  is  not  enough  to  sow  ;  we 
may  do  that  lavishly  and  constantly,  but  we  must 
add  passion,  emotion,  tender  pity,  strong  cryings 
and  tears,  if  the  second  half  of  the  text  is  to  be 
fulfilled,  and  we  reap  in  joy. 

But  what  a  promise  is  here  !  You  have  sown 
long  and  patiently  among  young  or  old,  some- 
times to  the  point  of  giving  all  up  in  despair; 
but  to  give  up  now  would  be  to  miss  the  harvest 
and  guerdon  of  all  your  toils.  Be  patient,  perse- 
vere a  little  longer.  God  guarantees  the  harvest. 
He  says,  "You  shall  reap;  you  shall  doubtless 
come  again,  bringing  your  sheaves."  Even 
though  you  were  to  die,  without  reaping,  yet  in 
another  world  you  would  come  again,  bringing 
your  sheaves. 

We  are  all  sowing  tears — tears  over  our  darling 
Absaloms,  tears  over  our  failures  and  mistakes, 
tears  over  our  disappointed  hopes.  But  each 
tear  overflowing  from  a  consecrated  soul  is  a 
seed-germ  dropped  into  God's  keeping,  and  it 
shall  have  its  reward.  He  carefully  gathers  up 
our  tears  for  His  bottle,  God  is  not  unrighteous 
to  forget.  He  guards  the  buried  seed,  and 
stands  sponsor  for  the  harvest.  No  sigh,  no  tear, 
no  prayer,  inspired  by  the  Spirit  of  God  can 
positively  be  lost  or  unproductive.  Like  your 
l.ord,  you  shall  yet  see  of  the  travail  of  your 
soul,  and  be  satisfied. 

"  For  while  the  tired  wavelets,  vainly  breaking, 
Seem  here  no  painful  inch  to  gain, 
Far  back,  through  creeks  and  inlets  making, 
Comes  silent,  flooding  in,  the  main." 

126 


He  giveth  unto  His  beloved  in  sleep. 

Fsa.  cxxvii.  2  (R.  v.,  marg.'). 

ALL  day  long  we  may  have  been  fretting  and 
fuming,  running  hither  and  thither,  and  doing 
our  little  best  to  build  the  house  and  keep  the 
city.  Sometimes  we  have  turned  to  look  to  our 
faith,  to  see  if  that  were  in  good  condition,  and 
sometimes  to  our  friends.  But  we  have  not  done 
much  to  forward  matters.  The  weight  of  our 
anxiety  is  unrelieved,  the  heavy  load  presses  still. 
Finally  we  can  hold  up  no  longer;  with  one  last 
helpless  look  to  God  we  fall  back  on  His  everlast- 
ing arms,  and  sleep.  We  rest  long  and  deeply, 
till  morning  taps  at  the  window.  We  spring  up 
relieved ;  the  storm  has  ceased,  and  there,  beside 
us,  given  whilst  we  slept,  is  the  boon  we  have 
craved  and  yearned  for.  It  has  been  given  unto 
His  beloved  in  sleep. 

What  an  emblem  of  death  !  We  may  have 
been  fretting  and  worrying  all  our  life,  have  at- 
tempted much  and  done  little,  have  questioned 
God's  love  and  care;  then,  tired  and  heartbro- 
ken, we  shall  fall  asleep  on  the  bosom  of  Christ, 
and  awake  to  find  the  house  built,  the  New  Jeru- 
salem set  up,  with  her  gates  of  pearl  and  walls  of 
jasper,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  come. 

Begone,  dull,  worrying  care  !  let  me  rest ; 
sweet  Faith  and  Hope,  close  mine  eyes  and  still 
my  heart;  Jesus,  give  me  sleep,  and  in  sleeping 
give  me  my  heart's  desire,  that  I  may  awake  and 
be  satisfied.  Curtained  by  eternal  mysteries, 
guarded  by  angel  watchers,  resting  on  the  lap  of 
mother  earth,  our  bodies  (though  not  our  souls) 
shall  sleep  until  the  sounding  of  the  Archangel's 
trump  announce  the  advent  of  the  new  heavens 
and  earth,  and  we  shall  awake,  like  belated 
sleepers,  to  find  that  God  has  been  bringing  re- 
demption as  we  slept. 

127 


Blessed  is  every  one  that  feareth  the  Lord. 

Psa.  cxxviii.  i. 

THE  special  phase  of  blessedness  here,  is  that 
of  the  home  life.  The  Jews  have  always  been 
distinguished  for  this.  A  recent  writer,  describ- 
ing the  Jews  of  the  middle  ages,  says:  ''The 
sanctity  of  the  home  was  an  affectionate  tradi- 
tion, linking  them  with  a  golden  chain  to  their 
fathers  before  them ;  and  amidst  the  degradation 
heaped  on  them,  they  were  emancipated  in  at 
least  one  spot  on  earth,  and  learned  from  their 
domestic  peace  to  look  with  pitiful  rather  than 
vindictive  eyes  upon  their  persecutors." 

Our  religious  life,  when  it  is  genuine,  will  al- 
ways cast  a  halo  of  blessedness  on  the  home. 
Not  lightly  does  Wordsworth  blend  "the  kin- 
dred points  of  heaven  and  home,"  for  the  marf 
who  fears  God  brings  heaven  into  his  home.  We 
must  not  be  sullen  or  self-absorbed  there.  We 
must  divest  ourselves  of  business  cares  and  anx- 
ieties ;  of  irritation  and  fretfulness ;  of  the 
brooding  clouds  that  have  gathered  on  our  faces; 
we  must  carefully  maintain  the  courtesies  of 
home,  and  be  our  sweetest,  gladdest,  loveliest 
selves. 

What  a  charming  cluster  of  images  !  The 
wife  as  a  vine  twining  round  the  carved  trellis 
work  of  the  inner  court  of  the  Oriental  home — as 
though  the  woman  gives  the  rich  wine  of  life, 
which  is  love,  as  well  as  shadowing  fertility  and 
graceful  beauty ;  whilst  children  as  olive  plants 
are  sources  of  perennial  joy.  Would  you  have 
such  a  home  ?  Its  key-stone  is  the  fear  of  griev- 
ing the  Spirit  of  God. 

"  The  work  and  watching  will  be  very  sweet 
Even  in  an  earthly  home, 
And  in  such  an  hour  as  you  think  not 
He  will  come." 

128 


Ma7iy  a  tifne  have  they  afflicted  me  :  yet  they  have 
not  prevailed  against  me.  Psa.  cxxix.  /,  2. 

WHAT  a  wonder  it  is  that  Satan  and  man  do 
not  prevail  against  the  saint  !  There  is  no  way 
of  accounting  for  it,  except  in  God's  election. 
Because  God  has  chosen  us  for  Himself,  and  re- 
deemed us  at  great  cost,  He  cannot  afford  to 
hand  us  over  to  the  will  of  our  enemies.  He 
may  allow  our  backs  to  be  furrowed  by  the  heavy 
scourge,  because  the  servant  must  be  as  his  Lord; 
but  He  will  cut  our  cords  in  the  day  selected  for 
our  execution,  and  let  us  go  free  from  the  hand 
of  our  foes.  So  it  was  with  Peter,  and  many  a 
time  with  Paul. 

Let  us  then  walk  with  God.  Fellowship  with 
Him  should  be  the  daily  bread  of  our  souls.  If 
we  cultivate  the  fresh  sense  of  fellowship  with 
Him,  we  shall  not  yield  to  fear,  be  our  foes  never 
so  venomous  and  their  plans  never  so  insidious. 
A  close  walk  with  God  is  the  sure  way  of  escap- 
ing them.  **  The  man  of  God  sent  unto  the 
king  of  Israel,  saying,  Beware  that  thou  pass  not 
such  a  place;  and  the  king  of  Israel  sent  to  the 
place  that  the  man  of  God  told  him  and  warned 
him  of;  and  he  saved  himself  not  once  nor 
twice." 

This  daily  fellowship  is  only  possible  through 
the  blood  of  Jesus,  by  which  we  draw  nigh  unto 
God  ;  and  it  can  only  be  maintained  by  constant 
watchfulness  in  little  things.  "Let  us  be  very 
zealous  over  ourselves  for  the  Lord,  watching 
against  the  least  shyness  between  the  soul  and 
Himself.  Where  there  is  much  love  between 
friends,  a  cold  look  is  a  matter  of  complaint." 
When  least  inclined  to  pray,  we  need  to  pray  the 
more.  When  least  conscious  of  Christ's  near- 
ness, we  need  to  be  most  eager,  like  the  old  cov- 
enanter, to  wrestle  for  access.  If  the  King  have 
not  sent  for  thee  these  many  days,  await  Him  in 
His  court. 

129 


There  is  forgiveness  with  Thee,  that  Thou  may- 
est  be  feared,  Psa.  cxxx.  4. 

YES,  thank  God,  there  is  forgiveness,  because 
at  His  right  hand  He  liveth  forevermore  who  put 
away  sin  by  the  sacrifice  of  Himself.  Forgive- 
ness at  any  moment  for  the  sins  of  a  life ;  re- 
peated forgiveness  for  the  sins  of  every  hour; 
forgiveness  instantaneously  upon  confession.  He 
pardoneth  and  absolveth  all  those  who  truly  re- 
pent and  unfeignedly  believe  in  Him  of  whom 
the  Gospel  speaks.  And  when  God  once  speaks 
forgiveness,  it  can  never  be  unspoken.  Fear 
and  doubt  and  misgiving  may  question,  but  can- 
not revoke  it.  Based  on  the  Blood  of  the  Cov- 
enant, on  promises  ratified  by  the  most  solemn 
assurances,  there  is  irrevocable  forgiveness  with 
God.  Weary,  sinning,  ashamed  soul,  the  foun- 
tain of  God's  forgiveness  springs  perennially 
from  His  heart ;  as  clear  and  full  as  when  that 
fountain  was  first  opened  for  sin  and  uncleanness. 
Take  it  and  go  your  way.  Even  if  there  be  no 
rush  of  emotion,  or  sense  of  pardon,  yet  dare  to 
believe  that  your  cries  and  tears  and  confessions 
have  been  heard  and  answered. 

Just  because  God  is  so  ready  to  forgive,  there 
is  wrought  within  our  hearts  an  ever-deepening 
dread  of  giving  Him  pain.  There  is  forgiveness 
with  Him,  that  He  may  be  feared.  There  is  a 
greater  fear  in  the  heart  of  the  true  child  of  God 
of  grieving  his  Father  than  there  is  in  the  unre- 
generate  of  the  penalty  of  transgression.  The 
element  of  fear  comes  back  into  our  nature,  re- 
fined and  purified  through  the  fires  of  love. 
There  is  no  fear  in  love  ;  and  yet  love  fears  with 
a  perpetual  dread  of  giving  needless  pain.  Be- 
cause God  is  a  consuming  fire  of  tender  love,  let 
us  serve  Him  with  godly  fear. 

"  What  is  thy  fear,  O  soul  ?     The  fear  of  that  dark  place, 
Or  fear  to  lose  the  joy  of  thy  Creator's  face  ?  " 

130 


Like  a  weaned  child  with  his  mother. 

Psa.  cxxxi.  2  (R.  v.). 

HOW  much  the  greatest  teachers  of  the  world 
have  Jearned  from  little  children  !  Jesus  has  for- 
evermore  set  a  little  child  in  the  midst  of  us  to 
teach  us.  It  is  from  the  nursery  that  David  got 
this  tender,  exquisite  conception. 

A  tender  babe  has  been  brought  up  by  the 
breast  and.  has  loved  to  nestle  to  its  mother.  But 
the  weaning  time  has  come.  With  Orientals  it 
is  often  greatly  deferred.  The  little  one  is  im- 
patient of  the  change,  and  highly  resents  the 
spoon  with  which  he  is  fed.  Vehemently  he 
cries,  and  fights,  and  struggles  with  hand  and 
foot,  little  knowing  that  he  is  resisting  a  change 
which  is  to  make  him  independent,  which  shall 
advance  his  truest  life,  and  shall  ultimately  bring 
him  back  to  that  mother  again,  as  her  stay  and 
blessing.  Finally,  however,  the  passion  subsides, 
the  sobs  die  down  to  little  whimpers,  a  tear  still 
lies  upon  the  cheek  to  show  where  the  storm  had 
raged ;  but  on  the  whole  the  babe  is  stilled  and 
quieted. 

So  with  us,  we  have  been  clinging  to  the  breast 
of  some  human  help  and  comfort.  Presently  the 
strong,  wise  hand  of  God  puts  us  gently  from  it, 
and  turns  us  to  other  sources  of  consolation.  At 
first  we  passionately  resist  with  outcry  and  strife. 
But  the  Comforter  comes  and  hushes  us  as  on  the 
very  lap  of  God.  He  shows  us  the  love  which 
cannot  mistake,  and,  at  last,  the  soul  calms,  be- 
comes stilled  and  quieted  ;  with  chastened  hope 
it  turns  to  the  Lord  ;  it  thrives  on  stronger  meat; 
it  leaves  behind  the  life  of  dependence,  and  is 
strengthened  with  all  might  unto  patience  and 
long-suffering  with  joy.  No  longer  satisfied  with 
milk,  it  partakes  of  strong  meat,  with  exercised 
sense  (Heb.  v.  11-14). 

131 


Lordf  remember  David,  and  ail  his  afflictions. 

Fsa.  cxxxii.  i. 

THIS  psalm  commemorates  the  removal  of  the 
Ark  to  the  Temple,  newly  prepared  for  its  re- 
ception by  Solomon.  David  had  been  dead 
some  years ;  but  as  they  prepared  to  fulfill  the 
project  on  which  he  had  set  his  heart,  the  men 
of  the  new  generation  could  not  forget  how 
he  sware  unto  the  Lord,  and  vowed  unto  the 
Mighty  One  of  Jacob.  They  remembered 
David.  Throughout  this  psalm  his  name  often 
recurs.  "For  Thy  servant  David's  sake." 
"The  Lord  hath  sworn  unto  David."  "The 
budding  of  David's  horn." 

"Shall  man  remember,  and  shall  God  for- 
get?" He  would  be  unrighteous  if  He  were  to 
forget  the  work  of  faith  and  labor  of  love  of  His 
saints.  It  was  in  pursuance  of  His  covenant 
with  David  that  Solomon's  temple  at  last  stood 
complete.  Thus  God  still  bends  over  the  scenes 
of  the  life-work  of  His  children.  The  chapel 
where  a  McCheyne  pleaded  with  his  congrega- 
tion ;  the  South  Sea  Island,  where  a  Williams 
poured  out  his  blood  ;  the  dark  forests  in  which 
a  Brainerd  wrestled  for  his  Indians ;  the  great 
Continent,  where  a  Moffat,  a  Livingstone,  a 
Hannington  wrought,  prayed,  and  suffered.  He 
remembers  David  and  all  his  afflictions.  He 
recalls  the  prayers,  and  tears,  and  travail  of 
soul;  and  the  time  comes  when  the  finished 
structure  stands  on  the  site  which  to  them  was 
waste  and  void.  No  effort,  nor  cry,  nor  prayer 
of  thine  goes  unheeded.  All  that  thou  hast  truly 
desired,  purposed,  lived  for,  prepared  for,  shall 
yet  take  shape,  and  greet  thee.  There  can  never 
be  one  lost  good.  Some  day  a  perfect  realiza- 
tion of  thy  dream,  which  thou  shalt  descry 
from  heaven's  standpoint  of  vision,  will  satisfy 
thee. 

138 


//  is  like  the  precious  oil  upon  the  head. 

Fsa.  cxxxiii,  2  (r.  v.). 

BROTHERLY  love  binding  together  kindred 
hearts 4s  here  compared  to  oil,  the  chosen  symbol 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  because  it  is  only  through 
His  grace  that  it  is  possible  to  love.  The  love 
of  the  brethren  is  the  earthly  manifestation  of 
love  to  God.  We  have  just  as  much  to  Him  as 
we  have  to  them  ;  and  such  love,  whether  to 
them  or  Him,  can  only  be  shed  abroad  in  our 
hearts  by  the  Holy  Ghost  given  unto  us.  Is  love 
wanting?  Seek  a  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Pentecost  meant  the  most  wonderful  manifesta- 
tion of  love  which  the  world  had  ever  seen. 

The  Holy  Spirit,  as  oil,  was  poured  upon  the 
head  of  our  great  Aaron  as  He  arose  from  the 
waters  of  baptism,  and  again  when  He  ascended 
into  the  presence  of  His  Father;  and  it  has  been 
descending  ever  since  upon  us  who  are  as  the 
skirts  of  His  garments.  To  the  Jew  it  seemed 
as  though  the  Hermon  range  overtowered  the 
land  and  was  able  to  drop  its  dews  across  the 
intervening  distance  upon  the  mountains  of  Zion. 
Thus,  from  the  glory  of  His  exaltation  Jesus 
drops  the  dew  of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  blessing 
upon  the  lowlands  of  our  life — that  blessing 
which  is  life  forevermore.  Our  response  to  it 
should  be  the  fertility  of  our  heart's  and  life's 
activities. 

"Ye  have,"  said  the  apostle,  **an  unction 
(anointing)  from  the  Holy  One,  and  ye  know  all 
things."  Could  that  assertion  be  made  of  us? 
If  not,  let  us  seek  it.  "  He  that  stablisheth  unto 
Christ,  and  anointeth,  is  God."  "Serve  your 
God  day  and  night  faithfully,"  says  Dr.  Good- 
win ;  "walk  humbly,  and  there  is  a  promise  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  to  come  and  fill  your  hearts. 
Sue  this  promise  out;  wait  for  it.  Rest  not  in 
believing  only,  there  is  a  further  assurance  to  be 
had." 

133 


Bless  ye  the  Lord,  ail  ye  which  by  nigJit  stand  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord.  Fsa.  cxxxiv.  i. 

THIS  hymn  was  composed  for  the  night-watch 
of  the  Temple,  for  those  that  had  gone  to  re- 
lieve the  Levites  who  had  been  in  charge  during 
the  day.  It  is  to  be  noticed  that  these  were 
specially  summoned  to  bless  the  Lord  and  lift 
up  their  hands.  For,  after  all,  is  it  not  they 
that  stand  in  the  house  of  God  by  7iight  who  are 
most  in  need  of  these  exhortations?  It  seems  to 
us  that  the  sleepless  sufferers  among  us  are  God's 
night-watch.  When  the  busy  workers  are  slum- 
bering, they  come  on  duty  to  bless  the  Lord, 
and  to  seek  His  blessing  on  the  work  of  the  past 
day,  and  the  coming  one. 

It  is  comparatively  easy  to  bless  the  Lord  in 
the  daytime,  when  sunshine  lies  like  His  smile 
on  nature,  and  all  the  world  is  full  of  music, 
and  our  lives  flow  on  quietly  and  peacefully.  It 
does  not  take  much  grace  to  bless  the  Lord  then. 
But  when  night  has  draped  the  earth  and  hushed 
the  homes  of  men  to  solitude,  and  we  stand 
amid  the  shadows  that  lurk  around  us  in  the 
sanctuary,  facing  the  inexplicable  mysteries  of 
Providence,  of  history,  of  life  and  death;  then 
the  song  falters  on  our  lips,  and  chokes  our 
utterance. 

No  sooner,  however,  do  we  dare  to  formulate 
the  words  of  blessing,  pursing  our  lips  in  the 
effort,  daring  to  say,  by  the  strong  effort  of  will, 
what  we  may  not  say  gladly  and  easily,  there 
comes  back  to  us,  as  to  this  ancient  singer,  the 
assurance  that  the  Lord  which  made  heaven  and 
earth  shall  bless.  Is  it  possible  for  Him  to  have 
made  heaven  and  earth,  and  not  to  be  able  to 
bless  the  soul  whom  He  has  not  created  only, 
but  redeemed  !  He  cannot  fail  to  bless  those 
that  bless.  Indeed,  their  hearts,  like  sounding 
boards,  but  reflect  to  Him  His  own. 
134 


Praise  Hitn,  O  ye  servants  of  the  Lord. 

Fsa.  ex XXV,  I. 

HERE  is  an  appeal  to  all  of  us.      We  are  His 

servants,  we  stand  in  His  courts;  let  us  praise 
Him.  There  is  a  distinction  between  thanks- 
giving and  praise.  In  that,  we  render  thanks  for 
the  great  benefits  that  we  have  received  at  His 
hands ;  in  this,  we  adore  God  for  all  that  He  is 
in  Himself.  Forgetting  our  own  petty  interests  and 
concerns,  our  me  and  7fiy  and  ?nmej  we  take  our 
stand  with  angels  and  archangels  and  all  the  host 
of  heaven  in  crying,  Thou  art  worthy,  O  holy, 
holy,  holy  Lord  !  Heaven  and  earth  are  full  of 
Thy  great  glory.  Glory  be  unto  Thee,  O  God 
Most  High  ! 

We  praise  Him  with  our  ascriptions  of  loyal 
affection,  but  we  praise  Him  no  less  when  we 
suffer  silently  according  to  the  will  of  God ; 
when  we  do  His  commandments,  hearkening 
to  the  voice  of  His  word ;  and  when  we  wait 
for  Him  to  indicate  His  will,  or  lead  us  by  a 
right  way. 

Oh  that  life  might  be  one  long  psalm  of  praise  ! 
Awake  my  soul,  awake  psaltery  and  harp,  awake 
all  that  is  within  me  !  Shall  angels  praise  Thee, 
my  God,  and  shall  I  be  dumb !  Shall  song 
awake  to  Thee  from  every  copse  and  bower, 
from  woodland  and  grove,  from  the  heart  of 
awakening  nature,  and  shall  I  hold  my  peace  ! 
I  praise  Thee,  I  bless  Thee,  I  worship  Thee,  I 
magnify  Thee,  most  loving,  most  holy,  most 
blessed  God ;  my  Father,  my  Redeemer,  my 
Comforter !  Every  whit  of  my  nature  cries. 
Glory  !  That  Thy  hand  seems  to  lie  heavily  on 
me,  and  that  my  soul  is  pressed  and  straitened 
from  without,  shall  not  stay  me.  Yea,  if  it 
should  be  my  lot  to  go  from  the  courts  of  Thy 
house  to  the  nethermost  abyss,  I  would  still  ask 
for  grace  to  fill  its  unaccustomed  spaces  with 
adoring  songs  ! 

135 


His  mercy  endiireth  forever. 

Psa.  cxxxvi.  26. 
TWENTY-SIX  times  in  this  Psalm  we  are  told 
that  God's  mercy  endureth  forever.  The  psalm- 
ist had  been  reviewing  the  history  of  the  past.  As 
far  back  as  the  creation  his  eye  had  travelled, 
and  all  through  the  stormy,  troublous  days  he 
could  detect  the  silver  thread  of  mercy.  Oh 
that  we  had  his  eyes  to  see  always  the  love  of 
God  !  Amid  the  murky  gloom  of  chaos  there  is 
a  silver  gleam ;  it  is  His  mercy.  When  sun  and 
moon  appear,  there  is  a  brighter  light  than  theirs ; 
it  is  His  mercy.  Above  the  roar  of  the  Red  Sea 
and  the  rattle  of  the  thunderstorms,  are  the  flute- 
like notes  of  His  mercy.  Through  all  the  strife 
and  horror  of  the  conquest  of  Canaan  there 
glides  the  white-robed  angel  of  His  mercy. 
Deeper  than  the  darkest  shades  of  sin,  higher 
than  the  highest  floods  of  transgression,  is  the 
love  of  God,  in  the  hand  of  which  the  round 
world  and  all  its  inhabitants  lie,  as  a  drop  on  the 
palm.  Look  back  on  your  life,  and  say  whether 
you  cannot  see  the  thread  of  mercy  linking  all  its 
beads. 

«  A  debtor  to  mercy  alone, 
Of  covenant  mercy  we  sing." 

And  do  you  suppose  that  such  mercy  is  going 
to  fail  you  ?  It  endureth  forever  !  You  fret  and 
chafe  like  a  restless  little  child ;  but  you  cannot 
fall  out  of  the  arms  of  God's  mercy.  Lie  still,  it 
canopies  you  like  a  mother's  face;  it  breathes 
about  you  as  a  mother's  embrace.  O  love  that 
will  not  let  us  go  !  O  mercy  that  hath  neither 
beginning  nor  end  !  O  God,  who  hast  loved, 
who  lovest,  and  who  wilt  love,  when  the  sun  is 
no  more,  and  the  things  that  are  now  shall  have 
passed  away  as  a  dream  !  O  grace  of  God,  ex- 
ceeding in  Thy  abundance  the  highest  mountains 
of  our  sin  ! 

136 


How  shall  we  sing  the  Lor  if  s  song  in  a  strange 
land  ?  V  Fsa.  cxxxvii.  4. 

THE  Hebrew  singers  were  famous  far  beyond 
the  limits  of  Israel.  It  is  not  surprising,  there- 
fore, that  their  captors  asked  of  them  the  songs 
of  Zion,  little  weening  that  there  was  an  in- 
superable incongruity  between  those  holy  songs 
which  were  associated  with  the  Temple  service, 
and  the  strange  surroundings  of  idolatrous  Baby- 
lon. The  Lord's  song  does  not  befit  the  strange 
land.  How  true  this  is  of  the  minstrelsy  of  the 
heart !  Chide  it  though  you  may  for  its  silence, 
it  must  remain  dumb  so  long  as  you  are  carried 
captive  by  the  powers  of  evil. 

You  have  ceased  singing  lately.  The  joy  of 
your  religious  life  has  vanished.  You  pass 
through  the  old  routine,  but  without  the  ex- 
hilaration of  former  days.  Can  you  not  tell  the 
reason  ?  It  is  not  because  your  circumstances 
are  depressed,  though  they  may  be;  for  Paul  and 
Silas  sang  praises  to  God  in  their  prison.  Is  not 
disobedience  at  the  root  of  your  songlessness? 
You  have  allowed  some  little  rift  to  come  within 
the  lute  of  your  life,  which  has  been  slowly 
widening,  and  now  threatens  to  silence  all.  And 
you  never  will  be  able  to  resume  that  song  until 
you  have  put  away  the  evil  of  your  doing,  and 
have  returned  from  the  land  of  the  enemy. 

The  return  from  Babylon  has  its  duplicate  in 
many  a  life.  In  answer  to  prayer  our  captivity 
is  turned  again  as  the  stream  from  the  south. 
Delivered  out  of  the  land  of  strangers,  we  again 
take  up  the  harp  of  praise.  "■  The  Lord's  song  " 
is  often  more  in  the  heart  than  on  the  lips. 
Remember  Jonathan  Edward's  description  of  the 
lady  who  afterward  became  his  wife,  whose  mind 
was  filled  with  exceeding  sweet  delight,  and 
seemed  to  have  some  one  invisible  always  com- 
muning with  lier. 

137 


The    Lord  will  perfect  that  which   concerneth 
ftie.  Fsa.  cxxxviii.  8. 

WHA  T  a  comfortable  assurance  !  We  often 
despair  of  ourselves.  We  awake  to  see  that  much 
on  which  we  have  prided  ourselves,  instead  of 
being  gold,  silver,  and  precious  stones,  was  mere 
wood,  hay,  and  stubble.  We  discover,  as  Saul 
of  Tarsus  did,  that  the  structure  of  righteousness 
which  we  have  been  raising  is  but  as  dross  in  the 
holy  eye  of  God.  We  find  ourselves  falling 
through  a  bottomless  pit  of  self-despair.  Finally, 
we  turn  to  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  say.  What  we  can- 
not do  for  ourselves,  and  what  no  one  can  do  for 
us,  Thou  must  undertake.  And  there  steals  upon 
us  the  comfortable  assurance  that  we  have  only  to 
be  faithful  and  true  to  His  least  prompting,  and 
He  will  perfect. 

What  an  argument!  First,  we  plead  the 
mercy  of  God,  the  patience  that  endures  forever, 
never  surprised,  never  surrendering  its  cherished 
purpose,  never  renouncing  heart  and  hope,  but 
always  enduring  amid  rebuffs  of  neglect  and  the 
proud  rebellion  of  self-will.  Because  Thy  love  is 
without  measure  or  end,  we  believe  that  Thou 
wilt  yet  be  conqueror,  O  Christ !  Thou  wilt 
have  Thy  way.  AVe  despair  of  ourselves.  We 
hope  infinitely  in  Thy  mercy. 

Secondly,  we  plead  that  we  are  the  work  of 
His  own  hands.  Has  He  done  so  much,  and 
will  He  not  finish?  Has  He  implanted  a  hunger 
that  He  will  not  satisfy?  Has  He  led  to  the 
point  of  Pisgah  vision,  and  will  He  not  give  the 
land?  A  mother  might  forsake  her  child,  but 
God  cannot  forsake  those  whom  He  has  made 
the  subjects  of  His  thought  and  care.  He  can- 
not have  created  within  us  longings  and  desires 
that  reach  to  the  Infinite,  merely  to  tantalize.  *'  If 
it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told  you."  Yes,  we 
shall  be  perfected,  some  day,  somewhere. 
138 


See  if  there  be  any  ivay  of  grief  in  me. 

Psa.  cxxxix.  24  (r.  v.,  margJ), 

THE  A.  V.  says  "  wicked  way  "  ;  but  the  r.  v. 
marg.  gives  '*  way  of  grief."  We  maybe  in  a 
way  that  causes  God  grief,  even  though  it  is  not 
what  men  might  term  a  way  of  wickedness. 
We  may  be  grieving  our  blessed  Lord  more  than 
we  know,  substituting  an  ideal  religious  standard, 
or  absorption  in  His  work,  or  the  conception 
which  our  friends  persist  in  holding  concerning 
us,  for  that  direct  personal  fellowship  with  Him- 
self, which  alone  is  religion.  Ah  !  how  much 
we  may  have  grieved  the  Spirit  of  Christ !  Not 
always  consciously.  Often  in  pleading  for  us, 
the  Lord  must  needs  say,  '^Forgive;  they  know 
not  what  they  do."  But  we  are  unwilling  that 
His  tender  heart  should  suffer,  or  His  face  be 
overcast  with  grief,  because  of  our  waywardness ; 
therefore  we  say,  "Search  us  and  know  us;  try 
us  and  show  us  the  ways  of  grief."  Be  prepared 
for  His  revelations,  searching  and  startling. 

Lord,  that  is  what  we  want !  We  have  been 
going  in  ways  of  grief.  We  desire  to  go  in  the 
way  everlasting — the  way  of  eternal  life ;  the 
way  which  we  shall  never  need  to  retrace;  the 
way  that  touches  the  deepest  life  possible  to  the 
creature.  But  we  cannot  find  it  for  ourselves, 
nor  even  see  the  next  step ;  therefore  we  stretch 
out  poor,  groping  hands,  and  cry,  "Lead  us,  as 
a  woman  may  lead  her  blind  child.  We  do  not 
ask  to  see  the  distant  way.  Show  us  the  next 
thing,  and  the  next,  and  the  next,  till  thy  grief 
is  turned  to  gladness."  May  I  venture  to  hope 
that  God  will  answer  my  prayer,  and  lead  me  in 
the  way  everlasting?  Certainly  !  Not  only  may 
you  hope,  you  must  hope.  It  is  as  much  your 
duty  to  hope  always,  and  for  the  best  things,  as 
to  look  for  forgiveness  and  grace  to  help  in  your 
time  of  need. 

13.9 


O  God,  the  strength  of  my  salvation^  Thou  hast 
covered  my  head  in  the  day  of  battle.    Psa,  cxl.  7. 

ALL  day  long  the  fight  has  waxed  fierce 
against  the  hardly-pressed  soldier.  The  very  sky 
has  seemed  darkened  with  flights  of  arrows,  and 
the  enemy  has  raged  like  a  tornado  amid  the 
reeds  on  the  river's  brink.  The  fiery  darts  of 
venomous  sarcasm  have  been  like  a  storm  of  hail, 
and  yet  the  lonely  warrior  has  not  succumbed. 
To  himself,  and  to  all  others,  his  escape  has  been 
marvellous.  How  could  it  be  accounted  for, 
except  that  an  unseen  shield  had  been  around 
him,  covering  his  head  in  the  day  of  battle. 

Ah,  beloved  soul,  God  is  not  only  the  strength 
of  thy  salvation,  but  He  is  also  the  covert,  the 
panoply,  the  shield  on  which  the  malice  of  the 
foe  expends  itself  in  vain.  Be  quiet.  Let  not 
thy  heart  be  troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid. 
No  weapon  that  is  formed  against  thee  shall 
prosper.  There  is  but  one  matter  for  which  thou 
needest  to  care.  Always  be  sure  that  you  are 
ranged  on  God's  side. 

As  David  anticipated  the  mischief  of  violent 
men  who  gathered  themselves  together  for  war, 
and  sharpened  their  tongues  like  a  serpent,  it 
was  a  consolation  to  look  back  upon  past  de- 
liverances. What  God  had  done  He  would  do 
again,  so  that  the  righteous  might  give  thanks, 
and  the  upright  dwell  in  His  presence.  God's 
covering  in  the  day  of  battle  makes  a  temple 
amid  its  tumult,  and  the  soul  dwells  there  as  in 
the  Divine  Presence  Chamber. 


O  Holy  Lord,  who  with  the  children  three 

Didst  walk  the  piercing  flame, 
Help !  in  these  trial  hours,  which,  save  to  Thee, 

I  dare  not  name ; 
Nor  let  these  quivering  eyes  and  sickening  heart 
Crumble  to  dust  beneath  the  tempter's  dart!" 
140 


Let  the  righteous  smite  me,  it  shall  be  a  kindness. 

Psa.  exit.  J  (R.  v.). 

DAVID  confessed  his  indebtedness  to  those 
who  had  reproved  him.  He  realized  how  much 
he  owed  them.  We  ought  to  consider  one  an- 
other and  have  a  care  for  each  other's  growth  in 
grace.  It  is  the  duty  of  every  true-hearted  child 
of  God  to  arrest  another  if  he  be  erring  in  some 
way  which  is  inconsistent  with  the  honor  of  the 
family.  We  have  to  wash  one  another's  feet ; 
and  may  perform  an  inestimable  benefit  in 
graciously  indicating  some  fly  in  the  ointment  of 
our  religious  profession. 

But  perhaps  there  is  nothing  which  needs 
greater  grace.  We  are  so  apt  to  be  censorious, 
to  lord  it  over  the  one  whom  we  rebuke,  to  pride 
ourselves  on  our  superiority,  to  be  so  taken  up 
with  another's  life,  as  to  miss  God's  best  for  our- 
selves. It  is  said  that  some  persons  wash  the 
saints'  feet  in  scalding  water.  David  says.  Let 
the  righteous  smite  me.  You  cannot  lift  a  man 
higher  than  you  are.  You  must  take  the  beam 
out  of  your  eye  before  you  can  take  the  mote  out 
of  your  brother's. 

It  needs  some  amount  of  grace  also  to  accept 
reproof.  The  head  is  rather  inclined  to  refuse 
it,  and  to  take  itself  out  of  the  way  of  the  well- 
meaning  adjusting  hand.  We  resent  interfer- 
ence. We  do  not  care  to  be  found  out.  But  if, 
by  God's  grace,  we  can  and  do  accept  the  smit- 
ing and  reproof,  we  shall  find  that  they  become 
as  fragrant  oil.  The  fresh  anointing  which  you 
seek  in  the  morning  may  come  not  in  rapt 
emotional  experiences,  but  in  the  straight  dealing 
of  some  fellow-disciple.  Whenever  anything  is 
said  which  finds  fault  with  you  and  blames  you, 
receive  it  humbly  and  tenderly,  asking  whether 
it  may  not  contain  a  message  from  your  Father. 
141 


When  my  spirit  was   overwhelmed  within  me^ 
then  Thou  knewest  my  path.  Fsa.  cxlii.  3. 

OF  course,  God  knows  our  path.  We  were 
created  unto  good  works  which  God  before  pre- 
pared that  we  should  walk  in  them.  There  is 
no  step  in  your  path  which  has  not  been  an- 
ticipated and  ordained  by  your  Heavenly  Father. 
See  that  path  lying  across  the  plain  of  life,  now 
traversing  deserts  of  sand,  or  climbing  steeps  of 
difficulty,  or  reaching  across  lonely  steppes. 
Your  heart  faints  (see  r.  v.,  marg.)  :  you  say,  I 
cannot  take  this  track  ;  I  cannot  go  through  that 
experience;  I  cannot  bear  that  strain.  Heart 
and  flesh  fail.  Then  it  is  an  infinite  solace  to 
look  up  into  the  face  of  the  Father,  and  say. 
Before  I  was  born,  or  took  the  first  steps  on  this 
path,  or  essayed  to  meet  its  manifold  vicissi- 
tudes, Thou  knewest  it;  and  Thou  must  have 
known  that  it  was  not  too  hard,  and  that  there 
were  resources  of  strength  in  Thyself  sufficient 
for  my  day,  which  the  emergency  would  bring 
out  in  a  clearer  manifestation. 

We  all  have^our  times  of  being  overwhelmed 
when  the  full  realization  of  our  grief,  and  pain, 
and  loneliness  rushes  over  us.  The  love  we  can 
never  retrieve;  the  opportunity  we  can  never 
recall.  Then  there  is  heart-break.  But  in  such 
dark  hours  Jesus  knows — knows  the  difficulties 
which  you  cannot  explain  to  the  dearest ;  the 
grave  perplexities  which  you  cannot  share  with 
your  wisest  confidant.  He  can  allow  for  a 
hesitance,  a  trepidation,  a  shrinking  back, 
which  to  others  are  unaccountable.  He  can 
give  credit  for  the  resolution  that  is  sorely  tested, 
and  the  faith  which  nearly  gives  out.  He  can 
take  into  account  matters  which  evade  the 
scrutiny  of  those  who  have  the  best  opportunity 
of  judging.  What  a  relief  to  turn  from  them  to 
Him,  and  say,  I  cannot  tell  them,  but  Thou 
knowest. 

143 


Li  Thy  siglit  shall  710  tnan  living  he  justified. 

Fsa.  cxliii.  2. 

THIS  is  an  admission  which  each  must  make 
for  himself.  Man  by  nature  is  very  willing  to 
justify  himself.  The  essence  of  the  Pharisees' 
sin  consisted  in  justifying  themselves  in  the  sight 
of  men.  But  God  knows  our  hearts,  and  that 
which  is  exalted  among  men  is  an  abomination  in 
the  sight  of  God.  We  need  to  have  a  deeper 
sense  of  God's  holiness,  and  of  His  requirements 
as  set  forth  in  His  holy  law.  We  need  more 
particular  preaching  and  teaching.  I  was  inter- 
ested recently  to  hear  of  one  who  said  she  did 
not  want  to  know  of  God  because  she  did  not 
want  to  know  her  own  sinfulness.  If  men  did 
know  God,  they  would  be  compelled  to  admit 
their  inability  to  be  just  with  Him.  It  is  our  duty 
to  force  the  knowledge  of  God  on  the  unwilling 
conscience  of  men. 

But  probably  what  we  all  need  as  preachers 
and  teachers  is  to  get  a  glimpse  of  God's  nature, 
to  know  what  holiness  is,  and  purity,  and  right- 
eousness, as  they  exist  in  the  Divine  nature.  We 
do  not  know  the  sinfulness  of  sin,  and  cannot  en- 
force it,  because  we  have  not  come  in  contact 
with  the  burning  bliss  of  the  Great  White 
Throne. 

We  are  justified  by  faith.  Directly  we  are 
joined  to  Christ,  we  stand  before  the  law  of  God 
clothed  in  His  righteousness,  and  accepted  not 
only  as  forgiven  sinners,  but  as  righteous.  We 
know  that  God  will  never  enter  into  judgment 
with  us,  since  we  were  judged  in  our  Substitute. 
There  will  be  a  judgment  of  our  works,  but  there 
can  be  no  condemnation  of  our  persons.  It  is 
God  that  justifies.  Who  shall  condemn?  The 
Master  said  that  the  publican  who  only  cried 
with  downcast  eyes,  "  God  be  propitiated  to  me, 
the  sinner,"  went  down  to  his  house  justified. 
143 


My  .  .  . 

Psa.  cxliv.  /,  2. 

NOTICE  that  repeated  My.  David  had 
learned  that  nothing  can  take  the  place  of  per- 
sonal dealings  with  God.  Surely  he  had  realized 
the  fulfillment  of  his  own  thoughts  about  dwell- 
ing in  the  House  of  the  Lord  all  the  days  of  his 
life,  and  beholding  His  beauty.  There  is  a  great 
fear  lest  many  of  God's  most  earnest  and  devoted 
children  may  be  losing  sight  of  Jesus  in  these 
active  days.  We  allow  our  work  for  Christ,  our 
doctrines  about  Him,  and  our  rules  for  becoming 
like  Him,  to  intercept  our  view  of  Him.  Too 
seldom  do  we  get  so  near  Him  as  to  be  able  to 
talk  to  Him  face  to  face ;  or  pile  word  on  word 
in  our  ineffectual  effort  to  tell  Him  what  we  think 
of  Him.     One  who  loved  much  sang : — 

"  Jesus,  Jesus,  dearest  Lord, 
Forgive  me  if  I  say 
For  very  love.  Thy  dearest  namCi 
A  thousand  times  a  day." 

After  all,  it  is  not  thoughts  about  Christ,  but 
Christ  Himself  that  we  all  need.  To  know  Him 
in  all  the  various  aspects  of  His  character,  as  Lov- 
ing-kindness, Fortress,  Shield,  and  Conqueror  ! 
Jesus  can  be  the  supply  of  your  every  need ;  and 
as  the  days  pass,  you  will  probably  find  yourself  put 
into  situations  which  will  force  you  to  discover  in 
Him  some  new  aspect,  some  fresh  characteristics, 
something  that  would  never  have  appeared  to 
view,  till  the  awful  exigency  had  arisen.  Then 
put  out  your  hand  and  say  My. 

Always  distinguish  between  the  words  attain 
and  obtain.  We  can  never  earn  His  gracious 
help,  either  by  prayer,  or  service ;  but  we  may 
claim,  appropriate,  and  take.  Learn  to  put  your 
hand  on  all  spiritual  blessings  in  Christ,  and  say, 
Mine. 

144 


Thy  kingdom  is  an  everlasting  kingdom, 

Fsa.  cxlv.  I  J. 

THESE  words  are  engraven  on  the  door  of  a 
mosque  in  Damascus,  which  was  formerly  a 
Christian  church.  Originally  they  were  plastered 
over  by  stucco  ;  but  this  has  dropped  away,  and 
the  words  stand  out  clearly  defined.  They  seem 
to  be  contradicted  by  centuries  of  Mohammed- 
anism ;  but  they  are  essentially  true.  Just  now 
the  kingdom  is  in  mystery ;  but  soon  it  will  be 
manifested. 

Jesus  is  gone  to  the  Father  to  be  invested  with 
the  kingdom,  as  a  Roman  official  might  have 
gone  from  the  provinces  to  Rome  for  his  in- 
vestiture on  the  part  of  the  emperor  as  pro-consul 
or  governor.  And  Daniel  tells  us  that  when  He 
comes  to  the  Ancient  of  Days,  He  will  receive 
from  Him  dominion,  and  glory,  and  a  kingdom 
that  all  the  peoples,  nations,  and  languages  should 
serve  Him;  and  His  dominion  is  an  everlasting 
dominion  which  shall  not  pass  away,  and  His 
kingdom  shall  not  be  destroyed.  It  shall  break 
in  pieces,  and  consume  all  other  kingdoms.  The 
iron,  clay,  brass,  silver,  and  gold,  shall  be  broken 
in  pieces,  and  become  like  the  chaff  of  summer 
threshing-floors ;  but  it  shall  become  a  great 
mountain  and  fill  the  earth. 

We  are  called  to  receive  a  kingdom  that  con- 
not  be  shaken.  Each  faithful  servant  is  to  rule 
over  his  allotted  cities.  We  are  to  reign  with 
Christ  for  a  thousand  years  in  this  world,  sharing 
His  throne  and  empire.  We  have  been  made 
kings  unto  God,  and  we  shall  reign  forever  and 
ever. 

"  Then  long  Eternity  shall  greet  our  bliss 

With  an  individual  kiss  ; 

Then  all  this  earthly  grossness  quit, 

Attir'd  with  stars,  we  shall  forever  sit, 
Triumphing  over  Death,  and  chance,  and  Thee,  O  Time ! " 

146 


In  that  very  day  his  thoughts  perish. 

Psa.  cxlvi.  4. 

THE  R.  V.  niarg.  gives  the  alternative  pur- 
poses. And  surely  we  all  have  had  reason  to 
notice  the  vacillation  and  infirmity  of  purpose 
which  characterize  too  many  of  the  sons  of  men. 
They  promise  to  visit  us  every  week,  in  our  sick- 
ness or  bereavement,  but  after  a  few  months  drop 
off.  They  pledge  themselves  to  perform  certain 
functions,  but  get  lax,  and  ultimately  the  grass 
grows  thick  where  their  feet  should  have  kept  it 
down. 

But  we  have  most  to  complain  of  ourselves. 
Who  among  us  has  not  bitterly  to  reproach  him- 
self for  the  evanescence  of  noble  resolution — the 
dying  down  of  earnest  purpose  ?  Too  often  they 
have  been  like  the  early  dew  and  the  morning 
cloud.  In  the  day  in  which  we  made  them  our 
purposes  have  perished. 

What  is  the  remedy  ?  It  is  suggested  in  those 
memorable  words  of  Jesus,  "  The  water  that  I 
shall  give  him  shall  become  in  him  a  well  of 
water,  springing  up  unto  eternal  life."  When 
once  Jesus  has  been  allowed  to  do  His  chosen 
work  in  the  soul.  He  opens  a  subterranean  pass- 
age to  the  reservoirs  of  eternity,  along  and 
through  which  the  supplies  from  God's  own  heart 
begin  to  enter  and  rise  up  within  the  soul. 
Abide  in  Him,  and  the  sap  of  His  life  will  sug- 
gest, renew,  and  reinforce,  the  purposes  of  the 
holy  life.  Rise  up,  O  well,  forever  rise,  within 
hearts  that  desire  a  fixed  purpose  to  love  God  ! 
Infirm  of  purpose  we  need  never  be,  whilst  God 
waits  to  create  in  us  a  steadfast  spirit  (Psa  li.  10, 
R.  v.,  marg.).  We  must  be  rooted  and  grounded 
in  Him.  Then  will  be  manifest  in  us  the  fruit  of 
the  Spirit,  which  is  *'  love,  joy,  peace,  long-sufi'er- 
ing,  gentleness,  goodness,  faith,  meekness,  self- 
control"  (Gal.  V.  22,  23,  R.  v.). 
146 


He  healeth  the  broken  ifi  heart.   .   .   .     He  telleth 
the  number  of  the  stars.  Psa.  cxlvU.  j,  4. 

HOW  wonderful  that  these  two  qualities  should 
blend  in  one  Being  !  That  God  tells  the  number 
of  the  stars  is  only  what  we  should  expect  of 
Him.  I'hey  are  His  flock,  lying  down  on  the 
fields  of  the  heavens ;  and  as  a  shepherd  has  a 
name  for  each  of  his  charge,  so  has  God  for  the 
stars.  But  that  He  should  be  able  to  bend  over 
one  broken  heart  and  bind  it  with  His  sympathy 
and  heal  its  flowing  wounds,  this  is  wonderful, 
amazing,  divine. 

It  is  said  that  in  a  healthy  man  the  clenched 
fist  is  about  the  size  of  the  heart.  So  in  God, 
His  might  is  the  gauge  of  His  mercy  :  His 
hand  of  His  heart.  The  mountains  of  His 
strength  show  the  valleys  of  His  tenderness. 

Yet  surely  it  must  be  so.  The  stars  are  after 
all  only  things,  great  masses  of  matter;  whilst 
hearts  are  those  of  living,  sentient  beings  which 
He  made,  redeemed,  and  loves.  They  are  the 
adornments  of  His  House,  whilst  broken  hearts 
are  His  children.  Shall  He  have  names  for  the 
one  and  no  care  for  the  other  ?  This  text  is  ex- 
quisitely illustrated  in  Jesus.  Through  Him 
God  made  the  worlds;  and  by  His  pierced 
hands  tears  have  been  wiped  and  stifling  sobs 
silenced  all  through  the  ages.  Is  your  heart 
bleeding?  He  knows.  He  cares,  He  loves.  He 
bends  over  and  heals  with  exquisite  sensitiveness 
and  skill.  Yea,  the  stars  may  fall  from  heaven 
as  untimely  figs;  the  sun  burn  out  as  an  extinct 
volcano;  but  He  will  never  cease  to  tend  and 
comfort  His  own. 


"  There  is  no  sorrow,  Lord,  too  light 
To  bring  in  prayer  to  Thee; 
There  is  no  anxious  care  too  slight 
To  wake  Thy  sympathy !  " 

147 


Stormy  wt7id fulfilling  His  word. 

Psa.  cxlviii.  8. 

AS  it  rushes  through  the  forest,  the  hurricane 
tears  down  the  rotten  branches,  and  makes  way 
for  the  new  shoots  of  the  spring ;  and  as  it 
searches  out  the  intricacies  of  the  crowded  al- 
leys and  courts  it  bears  away  the  fever  germs, 
and  changes  the  atmosphere.  Do  not  dread  it, 
if  you  meet  it  rushing  across  the  ocean  and 
churning  up  the  mighty  billows  on  its  way ; 
know  it  to  be  your  Father's  strong  servant,  in- 
tent on  fulfilling  some  errand  on  which  it  has 
been  sent. 

Stormy  winds  not  unseldom  invade  our  lives. 
All  had  been  so  fair  and  blessed  with  us.  The 
south  wind,  blowing  softly,  had  led  us  to  sup- 
pose that  we  might  make  for  another  harbor. 
But  not  long  afterward  the  tempestuous  Eurocly- 
don  beat  down  on  us,  bearing  us  far  out  of  our 
course,  and  threatening  us  with  destruction. 
But  even  under  those  circumstances,  dare  to 
trust.  The  stormy  wind  cannot  separate  you 
from  God ;  for  through  its  mad  fury  His  angels 
will  visit  you,  His  care  will  surround  you,  His 
purpose  will  be  fulfilled  of  bearing  you  onward, 
as  the  Apostle  was  borne  toward  Rome,  with  its 
opportunities  of  witness-bearing  (Acts  xxvii.). 

The  great  matter  to  remember  is  to  run  before 
the  wind.  Let  its  course  be  yours.  Yield  your 
will  to  God's  will ;  and  even  though  it  bears  you 
far  out  of  your  course,  dare  to  believe  that  it  is 
the  quickest  and  best  way  of  attaining  the  har- 
bor which  God  has  prepared.  There  is  nothing 
terrible  in  fire,  or  hail,  or  stormy  wind,  when 
we  see  God  behind  them. 

'*  O  man  !  hold  thee  on  in  courage  of  soul 

Through  the  stormy  shades  of  thy  worldly  way, 
And  the  billows  of  cloud  that  around  thee  roll 
Shall  sleep  in  the  light  of  a  wondrous  day ! " 
148 


The  Lord  taketh  pleasure  in  His  people. 

Psa.  cxlix.  4. 

THE  Lord  watches  us  more  closely  than  we 
realize.  At  each  turn,  His  eye  is  upon  us ;  and 
when  we  manifest  some  trait  of  obedience  or  de- 
votion, it  sends  a  thrill  of  pleasure  through  His 
heart.  Of  course  our  standing  is  always  in  His 
grace.  We  love  only  because  He  first  loved. 
Our  comeliness  is  placed  on  us  by  our  King. 
And  when  we  are  at  our  best  we  always  need  the 
sprinkling  of  the  precious  blood.  But  still  it  is 
the  constant  teaching  of  Scripture  that  we  may 
please  God.  This  was  the  testimony  borne  of 
Enoch  before  his  translation,  and  the  apostle  ex- 
horts us  to  walk  worthily  of  the  Lord,  unto  all 
pleasing.  He  tells  us  not  to  entangle  ourselves 
in  the  affairs  of  this  life,  that  we  may  please  Him 
who  hath  chosen  us  to  be  His  soldiers. 

How  well  it  would  be  if  this  were  the  aim  of 
every  day,  the  purpose  of  every  sermon,  the  mo- 
tive of  every  act.  It  were  easy  to  be  baptized  in 
the  waters  of  death,  if  only  on  emerging  we 
might  stand  beneath  the  open  heavens,  whilst  a 
voice  said,  "This  is  my  beloved  child,  in  whom 
I  am  well  pleased."  Let  us  strive  for  this.  Let 
our  eye  be  ever  fixed  on  that  beloved  face,  check- 
ing any  act  that  might  threaten  to  bedim  it, 
prosecuting  all  that  might  bring  over  it  a  smile 
of  loving  appreciation  and  thankfulness. 

And  see  how  the  verse  closes:  "He  will 
beautify  the  meek  with  victory  "  (r.  v.,  piarg.). 
Not  only  does  God  take  a  personal  interest  in 
each  step  of  the  obedient  soul,  but  He  makes  it 
beautiful,  and  leads  it  from  victory  to  victory. 
This  combination  is  very  significant.  The  vic- 
torious are  not  always  meek,  and  the  meek  do 
not  generally  seem  victorious.  But  it  is  other- 
wise when  God  takes  pleasure. 
149 


Praise  ye  the  Lord  !    Hallehijah  ! 

Psa.  cl  6. 

THE  psalter  begins  with  "Blessed,"  and  ends 
with  "Hallelujah."  Obedience  in  walk  and 
conduct  leads  to  blessedness,  and  this  culminates 
in  rapture.  The  heart  that  does  God's  will  in 
the  world  may  not  be  always  happy,  but  it  is 
always  blessed ;  and  when  patience  has  had  her 
perfect  work,  it  will  break  into  such  rapture  as 
to  need  all  creation  to  help  its  song  to  perfect 
and  complete  expression. 

Your  life  may  resemble  the  psalter  with  its 
varying  moods,  its  light  and  shadow,  its  sob  and 
smile;  but  it  will  end  with  hallelujahs,  if  only 
you  will  keep  true  to  the  will  and  way  and  work 
of  the  Most  Holy. 

Your  estimate  of  the  world  is  often  pessimistic 
to  the  last  point ;  but  if  you  will  be  still,  and  let 
God  finish  His  work  perfectly,  you  will  hear  all 
things  that  have  breath  joining  in  the  Hallelujah 
Chorus,  and  saying.  The  kingdoms  of  the  world 
have  become  those  of  the  Lord  and  of  His 
Christ. 

God  is  preparing  the  whole  universe  to  be  an 
orchestra  of  praise  and  adoration  to  His  Son. 
On  one  occasion  a  great  conductor,  amidst  the 
burst  of  five  hundred  instruments,  is  said  to  have 
missed  the  piccolo;  and  he  stayed  the  entire 
performance  till  it  chimed  in.  Nothing  can 
satisfy  God  till  creation's  groans  are  changed  to 
rapture,  and  the  curse,  which  restrains  her  songs, 
is  lifted  from  the  face  of  all  nature;  but  He 
wants  to  hear  your  voice.  If  you  cannot  praise 
Him  in  the  church,  praise  Him  in  Nature,  "the 
firmament  of  His  power."  If  you  cannot  praise 
Him  for  His  acts,  do  so  for  His  excellent  great- 
ness. If  not  with  the  blare  of  trumpet,  then 
with  the  softer  lute.  If  not  with  the  realization 
of  the  senses,  then  in  the  assurance  of  faith. 
Only  be  sure  to  praise  Him. 
150 


Quiet  from  fear  of  evil, 

Prov.  I.  S3. 

''WHOSO."  This  promise  is  to  us  all.  To 
the  man  in  the  street,  as  much  as  for  those  of  us 
who  have  been  nurtured  in  Christian  homes. 

The  evil  is  taken  out  of  things  for  those  whose 
hearts  are  full  of  God.  Nothing  which  God 
allows  to  come  to  us  is  really  evil,  except  sin. 
Put  away  sin  from  your  heart,  and  let  it  be  filled 
with  Love  and  Faith,  and  behold  all  things  will 
become  new.  They  will  lose  their  evil  sem- 
blance, because  you  will  look  at  them  with  new 
eyes.  Men  talk  against  the  March  wind ;  but 
when  they  understand  that  it  is  cleansing  foetid 
dens  of  fever-germs,  they  regard  it  as  a  blessing. 
Men  dread  change,  anything  unwonted  or  unac- 
customed ;  but  when  they  find  that,  like  the 
transplanted  fruit-tree,  they  will  often  attain  a 
greater  maturity  than  when  left  to  one  spot  of 
soil,  they  welcome  it.  If  you  look  at  things 
apart  from  God,  especially  if  you  anticipate  the 
future  without  Him,  you  have  good  cause  for 
fear;  but  if  you  hearken  to  and  obey  Him,  if 
you  know  and  love  Him,  if  you  abide  in  God 
and  God  in  you,  you  will  see  that  the  evil  is  not 
in  the  things  or  events,  but  in  yourself.  Give 
yourself  as  alms  to  God,  and  lo,  all  things  will 
become  clean  to  you. 

Death  shall  lose  its  terrors,  and  become  the 
Father's  servant,  ushering  you  into  His  presence. 
Pain  and  suffering  shall  but  cast  into  relief  the 
stars  of  Divine  promise.  Poverty  will  have  no 
pangs,  and  storm  no  alarms.  You  shall  become 
so  habituated  to  find  the  rarest  blessings  associ- 
ated with  what  men  often  dread  most,  that  you 
will  be  quiet  from  all  fear  of  evil,  and  able  to 
look  out,  with  serene  and  untroubled  heart,  on  a 
sea  of  troubles.  In  fact,  it  is  very  doubtful  if 
anything  is  really  evil  for  those  who  love  God. 
151 


If  thou  seek  her  as  silver ^  and  search  for  her  as 
for  hid  treasures ^  etc,  Prov.  it.  4, 5. 

THERE  is  a  beautiful  illustration  of  the  truth 
of  these  words  in  the  life  of  Justin  the  Martyr, 
who  died  for  the  Gospel  in  the  second  century. 
As  a  young  man  he  earnestly  sought  for  truth, 
specially  that  which  would  arm  him  with  self- 
control.  He  took  up  one  system  of  philosophy 
after  another,  trying  them  as  a  man  might  ex- 
plore mine  after  mine  for  silver.  Finally,  he 
found  that  every  effort  was  futile. 

*'  All  at  last  did  faithless  prove, 
And,  late  or  soon,  betrayed  my  love." 

At  length,  wandering  in  despair  on  the  seashore, 
he  met  an  aged  man,  a  Christian,  who  spake  as 
none  had  ever  done  to  his  heart,  and  pointed 
him  to  God  in  Christ.  Beneath  those  words, 
that  afternoon,  he  understood  the  fear  of  the 
Lord,  and  found  the  knowledge  of  God. 

Thomas  longed  for  evidences  of  the  Resurrec- 
tion, and  Christ  came  to  him.  The  Chamber- 
lain, as  he  sat  in  his  chariot  reading  the  book  of 
Esaias  the  Prophet  at  chapter  liii.,  was  desirous 
to  know  the  truth,  and  Philip  was  sent  to  him. 
To  Saul  of  Tarsus,  groping  in  the  midnight, 
there  came  fuller  revelations  than  ever  Gamaliel 
gave,  through  Stephen  and  Ananias,  led  by  the 
Spirit  of  God. 

But  you  must  be  prepared  to  sacrifice  all.  He 
who  seeks  diamonds,  or  pearls,  or  gold,  will 
leave  his  native  land,  and  what  other  men  hold 
dear,  and  centre  his  whole  attention  on  his  quest. 
Not  otherwise  must  it  be  with  those  who  would 
understand  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  and  find  the 
knowledge  of  God.  They  must  be  willing  to 
count  all  things  bnt  loss,  to  sell  all  they  have,  in 
order  to  buy  the  field  with  its  treasure-trove. 
.  152 


He  shall  direct  thy  paths, 

Prov.  Hi.  6. 

T'^F  paths  !  Then,  every  man's  path  is  dis- 
tinct for  him,  and  for  no  other.  The  paths  may- 
lie  side  by  side,  but  they  are  different.  They 
have  converged  ;  they  may  diverge.  When  Peter 
had  been  told  of  the  rugged  nature  of  the  pre- 
destined path  which  was  marked  out  for  him  in 
the  Providence  of  God,  he  turned  toward  John, 
his  companion  and  friend,  and  said  to  Jesus, 
"What  shall  this  man  do?"  The  Lord  in- 
stantly replied,  in  effect:  "That  is  a  matter  in 
which  I  can  brook  no  interference ;  it  is  entirely 
a  matter  for  My  choice  and  will ;  if  I  will,  it 
may  be  that  he  shall  tarry  till  I  come." 

We  need  to  be  divinely  directed. — The  man  who 
stands  above  the  maze  can  direct  you  through 
all  its  labyrinth  by  the  readiest  path.  God  who 
made  thee  for  thy  life,  and  thy  life  for  thee,  can 
direct  thee,  and  He  only. 

First :  Lean  not  to  thine  own  understanding. — 
One  is  apt  to  pride  oneself  on  one's  far-sighted 
judgment.  We  consult  our  maps  and  guides  and 
the  opinions  of  fellow  travellers,  to  find  ourselves 
at  fault.  We  have  to  learn  that  our  own  under- 
standing is  not  keen  enough  or  wise  enough  to 
direct ;  we  must  abjure  and  renounce  all  depend- 
ence on  it. 

Second  :  In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  Him. — 
Let  thine  eye  be  single ;  thy  one  aim  to  please 
Him ;  thy  sole  motive.  His  glory.  It  is  marvel- 
lous how  certainly  and  delightfully  our  way 
opens  before  us  when  we  no  longer  look  down 
on  it,  or  around  at  others,  but  simply  upwards 
into  the  face  of  Christ.  "  It  is  a  universal  law, 
unalterable  as  the  nature  of  God,  that  no  created 
being  can  be  truly  holy,  useful,  or  happy,  who 
is  knowingly  and  deliberately  out  of  the  Divine 
fellowship,  for  a  single  moment.'' 
153 


The  light  of  cia7vn,  that  shineth  more  and  more 
unto  the  perfect  day.         Prov.  iv.  i8  (r.  v.,  jnarg.). 

THIS  may  be  referred  to  the  work  of  God  in 
the  heart.  He  who  commanded  light  to  shine 
out  of  darkness  hath  shined  in  our  hearts,  to 
give  the  light  of  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of 
God.  A  little  glimmering  ray  at  first,  God's 
light  in  the  soul  grows  ever  from  less  to  more, 
revealing  Himself  and  manifesting  ourselves,  so 
that  we  are  growingly  attracted  from  the  self- 
life  to  circle  around  Him. 

But  probably  it  is  true  also  of  the  graciousness 
of  the  believer's  life.  At  first  it  shows  itself  in 
little  acts  of  blessing  on  children  and  the  poor ; 
but  the  range  of  influence  is  always  apt  to  in- 
crease, till  what  was  a  glimmer  of  helpfulness 
becomes  as  the  sun  shining  in  strength.  The 
Sunday-school  teacher  becomes  the  preacher ;  the 
visitor  among  the  poor  becomes  the  philanthro- 
pist ;  the  witness  to  the  Gospel  in  the  factory  is 
called  to  witness  in  the  great  theatre  of  the 
world.  See  to  it  that  there  is  a  steady  obedience 
to  God's  least  promptings  and  monitions.  Fol- 
low on  to  know  the  Lord,  and  to  be  conformed 
to  His  all-wise  purpose. 

Once  again  notice  the  comparison  in  its  exqui- 
site beauty.  Light  is  so  gentle,  noiseless,  and 
tender.  There  is  no  sound ;  its  voice  is  not 
heard.  So  is  the  influence  of  the  holy  soul.  Its 
life  becomes  the  light  of  men.  As  with  the 
angel  over  the  plain  of  Bethlehem,  it  sheds  a 
light  around  those  whom  it  will  presently  ad- 
dress. Like  the  Gulf  Stream,  which  changes 
our  climate  from  northern  rigor  to  the  temperate 
zone,  so  a  holy  life  gently  and  irresistibly  in- 
fluences and  blesses  the  world.  The  world  is  no 
worse  than  it  is,  not  because  of  the  holy  words 
spoken  on  the  Lord's  Day,  but  for  the  holy  lives 
of  obscure  saints. 

154 


The  level  path  of  life.     He  maketh  level  all  His 
paths.  Prov.  V.  6,  21  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  a  remarkable  expression,  *'  the  level  path 
of  life  "  ;  and  there  is  great  comfort  in  knowing 
that  God  is  ever  before  us,  levelling  our  path- 
way, taking  insurmountable  obstacles  out  of  the 
way,  so  that  our  feet  do  not  stumble. 

It  may  be  that  you  are  facing  a  great  moun- 
tain range  of  difficulty.  Before  you  obstacles, 
apparently  insuperable,  rear  themselves  like  a 
giant  wall  to  heaven.  When  you  cross  the  Jor- 
dan there  is  always  a  Jericho  which  appears  to 
bar  all  further  advance,  and  your  heart  fails. 
But  you  are  bidden  to  believe  that  there  is  a 
level  path  right  through  those  mighty  barriers ; 
a  pass,  as  it  is  called,  in  mountainous  districts. 
The  walking  there  is  easy  and  pleasant  if  only 
you  will  let  yourself  be  led  to  it.  God  has  made 
it,  but  you  must  take  it.  How  we  dread  the 
thought  of  those  steep  cliffs  !  It  seems  as  though 
we  could  never  climb  them ;  but  if  we  would 
only  look  at  the  Lord  instead  of  at  the  hills,  if 
we  would  look  above  the  hills  to  Jehovah,  we 
should  be  able  to  rest  in  sure  faith  that  He  will 
show  us  the  level  path  of  life. 

Your  path  is  not  level,  but  full  of  boulders 
which  have  rolled  down  upon  and  choked  it. 
But  may  this  not  be  partly  due  to  your  mistakes 
or  sins — to  your  willfulness  and  self-dependence? 
There  are  sorrows  and  trials  in  all  lives;  but 
these  need  not  obstruct  our  progress.  The  text 
surely  refers  to  those  difficulties  which  threaten 
us  with  their  arrest,  putting  barriers  in  our  way. 
When  Peter  reached  the  iron  gate  he  found  it 
open ;  when  the  women  reached  the  sepulchre 
door  they  found  the  stone  gone.  What  an  awful 
indictment  against  the  child  of  sensual  pleasure, 
*'  She  findeth  not  the  level  path  of  life  !  " 
155 


Bind  them  continually  upon  thi?te  heart ,  tie  them 
about  thy  neck.  Prov.  vL  ai. 

IF  the  son  addressed  here  is  bidden  to  thus 
care  for  the  words  of  his  parents,  how  much 
more  should  we  ponder  those  of  God  as  given  us 
in  God's  blessed  Book. 

When  thou  walkest,  it  shall  lead  thee. — There 
is  a  little  circle  of  friends  whom  I  know  of  who 
read  this  book  of  Proverbs  through  every  month 
for  practical  direction  on  the  path  of  life.  A 
West-countryman  said  of  this  collection  of  wise 
words,  "  If  any  man  shall  maister  the  Book  of 
Proverbs,  no  man  shall  maister  he."  Take  for 
instance  the  weighty  counsels  of  the  first  five 
verses.  How  many  lives  would  have  been  saved 
from  bitter  anguish  and  disappointment  if  only 
they  had  been  ruled  by  them  !  Let  every  young 
man  also  ponder  the  closing  verses.  Let  us  all 
meditate  more  constantly  on  the  Word  of  God. 

When  thou  sleepest,  it  shall  watch  thee. — The 
man  who  meditates  on  the  Word  of  God  by  day 
will  not  be  troubled  by  evil  dreams  at  night. 
Whatever  unholy  spirits  may  prowl  around  his 
bed,  they  will  be  restrained  from  molesting  him 
whose  head  is  pillowed  on  some  holy  word  of 
God.  And  on  awakening,  the  Angel  of  Revela- 
tion will  whisper  words  of  encouragement  and 
love. 

And  when  thou  awakest,  it  shall  talk  with 
thee. — The  heart  is  accustomed  to  commune  with 
itself  about  many  things,  but  when  the  mind  is 
full  of  God  through  His  Word,  it  seems  as 
though  the  monologue  becomes  a  dialogue.  To 
all  our  wonderings,  fears,  questionings,  answers 
come  back  from  the  infinite  glory  in  words  of 
Scripture.  Some  wear  amulets  about  their  necks 
to  preserve  them  ;  but  the  Word  of  God  is  both 
a  safeguard  and  choice  treasure. 
156 


Say  unto  Wisdom,  Thou  art  my  sister  ;  and  call 
Understanding  thy  kinswoman.  Frov.  vii.  4. 

THIS  wisdom  might  seem  to  be  too  unearthly 
and  ethereal  to  engage  our  passionate  devotion, 
unless  we  remember  that  she  was  incarnated  in 
Jesus  Christ,  who,  throughout  this  book,  seems 
forthshadowed  in  the  majestic  conception  of  wis- 
dom. And  who  shall  deny  that  the  most  attrac- 
tive and  lovable  traits  blended  in  His  matchless 
character  as  Son  of  Man  and  exalted  Redeemer. 

With  what  sensitive  purity  He  bent  His  face 
to  the  ground  and  wrote  on  the  dust,  when  her 
accusers  brought  to  Him  a  woman  taken  in  the 
act  of  sin  1  With  what  thoughtfulness  He  sent 
word  to  Peter  that  He  was  risen,  and  provided 
the  meal  for  His  weary  and  wave-drenched  sailor 
friends  on  the  shores  of  the  lake  !  With  what* 
quick  intuition  He  read  Mary's  desire  to  anoint 
Him  for  the  burying  ! 

It  was  this  combination  of  what  is  sweet  in 
women  and  strong  in  man,  which  so  deeply  sat- 
isfied men  like  Bernard,  Rutherford,  Fenelon, 
and  thousands  more,  who  have  been  shut  out 
from  the  delights  of  human  love,  but  have  found 
in  Jesus  the  complement  of  their  need,  the  satis- 
faction of  their  hunger  and  thirst.  In  Him,  for 
them,  was  restored  the  vision  of  the  sweet  mother 
of  early  childhood  ;  of  the  angel-sister  who  went 
to  be  with  God  ;  of  the  early  love  that  was  never 
destined  to  be  realized. 

Women  find  in  Jesus  strength  on  which  to  lean 
their  weakness  ;  and  men  find  in  Him  the  ten- 
der, thoughtful  sympathy  to  which  they  can 
confidently  entrust  themselves.  We  are  born 
for  the  infinite  and  Divine;  earthly  loves,  at 
their  best,  are  only  patterns  of  things  in  the 
heavens.  They  are  priceless ;  but  let  us  look 
into  them  and  through  them,  to  behold  the  un- 
seen and  eternal  that  lie  beneath. 
157 


The  Lord  possessed  me  in  the  beginning  of  His 
way,  before  His  works  of  old.  Prov.  viii.  22. 

THIS  wisdom  is  not  an  abstract  attribute  or 
quality,  but  a  Person.  Whether  the  ancient 
writer  of  these  glowing  paragraphs  realized  fully 
what  deep  things  he  was  saying  when  he  so  de- 
picted her — as  one  who  was  brought  up  with  the 
Father  before  the  world  was,  as  rejoicing  in  the 
habitable  parts  of  the  earth  with  the  children  of 
men — we  cannot  positively  determine ;  but  we 
at  least  may  lift  the  curtain,  and  see  here  Christ, 
who  is  both  the  Power  and  the  Wisdom  of  God. 
Is  it  not  His  chosen  name  the  Word  of  God  ? 

There,  in  that  divine  Man,  in  His  gentle  love, 
in  His  deep  and  weighty  words,  in  His  power  to 
give  life  to  them  that  find  Him,  we  have  the 
highest  embodiment  of  the  wisdom  of  God, 
which  was  before  all  worlds,  and  yet  stoops  to 
each  lowly  and  obedient  heart.  It  is  not  enough 
then  for  us  to  seek  knowledge  and  get  under- 
standing apart  from  Jesus;  but  to  seek  Him 
diligently  and  early,  as  we  are  bidden  in  ver.  17, 
sure  that  when  we  win  Him,  we  shall  possess  all 
the  wealth  of  truth  and  knowledge  that  we  re- 
quire for  this  life  and  the  next.  He  is  the  Truth 
and  the  Life.  Truth  apart  from  Him  neither 
nourishes  nor  inspires. 

Would  you  know  the  wisdom  of  God,  then  be 
still  in  heart,  wait  before  God,  quieting  all  your 
soul  before  Him ;  remember  that  Jesus  is  near, 
waiting,  longing  to  impart  Himself.  Be  not 
content  till  you  have  pressed  through  the  words 
to  the  Word,  through  the  Scriptures  to  Him  of 
wliom  they  testify.  His  delights  are  with  the 
sons  of  men.  Nothing  will  fill  Him  with  greater 
joy  than  that  we  should  hear  Him,  watching 
daily  at  His  gates,  and  waiting  at  the  posts  of 
His  doors. 

158 


Whoso  is  simple y  let  him  turn  in  hither. 

Froz'.  ix.  4,  i6. 

TWICE  over  this  invitation  is  given — first  by 
wisdom,  and  secondly  by  the  foolish  woman.  To 
every  young  life,  in  its  first  setting  forth,  many 
voices  and  inducements  speak.  Wise,  grave 
voices  mingle  with  siren  songs.  The  strait  gate 
into  the  narrow  way  stands  side  by  side  with  the 
wide  gate  that  leads  into  the  broad  way.  The 
counsels  of  the  fathers's  lips,  the  tears  and 
prayers  of  the  mother,  amid  the  enticements  of 
sinners,  and  the  blandishments  of  the  world. 
Here  the  true  Shepherd,  there  the  hireling;  here 
the  true  Bride,  there  the  apostate  Church ;  here 
that  which  condemns  the  flesh,  there  that  which 
takes  its  side. 

Life  is  full  of  choices.  There  is  no  day  with- 
out them.  We  are  perpetually  being  reminded 
of  the  way  in  which  the  Creator  introduced  lines 
of  division  into  His  earliest  work.  For  it  is  thus 
that  He  proceeds  with  the  work  of  the  new  crea- 
tion within.  Repeatedly  we  hear  His  voice  as  He 
divides  the  light  from  the  darkness,  calling  the 
one  Day  and  the  other  Night.  Would  that  we 
ever  acted  as  children  of  the  Light  and  of  the 
Day,  choosing  the  one  and  refusing  the  other  ! 
We  are  always  being  exercised  in  this,  and  our 
best  life  depends  on  the  keenness  and  quickness 
with  which  we  refuse  the  evil  and  choose  the 
good. 

Wisdom  appeals  to  conscience.  She  says 
nothing  at  the  outset  of  the  sweetness  of  her  serv- 
ice, or  the  pleasantness  of  her  paths ;  but  bases 
her  appeal  on  whatsoever  things  are  just,  pure, 
lovely,  and  of  good  report.  Yet  she  has  rich  re- 
wards to  those  that  choose  her.  Length  of  days, 
honor,  a  heart  at  leisure  from  itself,  sure  satis- 
faction, the  assurance  of  the  favor  of  God,  a  sure 
and  certain  hope  of  blessedness  forevermore. 
159 


He  is  in  the  way  of  life  that  heedeth  correction. 

Prov.  X.  17  (R.  v.). 

IT  is  a  wise  prayer,  *<  Correct  me,  O  Lord,  but 
with  judgment."  Happy  is  the  man  whom  God 
correcteth;  for  whom  the  Lord  loveth  He  cor- 
recteth. 

Sometimes  God  corrects  us  with  rebukes,  mak- 
ing our  beauty  to  consume  away  as  a  moth  be- 
fore the  stroke  of  iUness  or  physical  weakness. 
At  other  times  we  are  corrected  by  the  faithful 
rebuke  of  a  friend,  or  the  question  of  a  little 
child.  And  yet  again,  correction  comes  to  us 
through  the  sore  discipline  of  having  to  reap  the 
results  of  our  sins.  Some  heed  correction ; 
others  resist  and  refuse  it.  Many  get  weary  of  it, 
and  for  their  sakes  it  is  written,  "  We  have  had 
fathers  of  our  flesh,  which  corrected  us,  and  we 
gave  them  reverence ;  shall  we  not  much  rather 
be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits  and 
live?" 

Do  not  be  weary  of  God's  correction,  my 
chastened  friend.  He  does  not  expose  you  to 
the  searching  trial  for  His  pleasure;  but  for  your 
profit,  and  that  you  may  be  a  partaker  of  His 
holiness.  Heed  correction.  Ask  why  it  has 
come,  and  what  it  is  designed  to  teach.  Set 
yourself  to  learn  the  lesson  quickly.  Above  all, 
let  us  heed  more  carefully  God's  Holy  Word, 
which  is  profitable  for  correction,  as  well  as  for 
teaching,  reproof,  and  instruction.  How  often 
might  we  have  been  spared  the  searching  correc- 
tion of  trouble  if  we  had  allowed  our  lives  to  be 
pruned  by  God's  Word  ! 

Our  behavior  under  correction  will  show 
whether  we  are  in  the  Way  of  Life  or  not.  If  the 
Life  of  God  be  truly  within  us,  we  will  meekly 
accept  and  profit  by  the  correction,  from  what- 
ever source  it  comes.  Otherwise  we  will  murmur 
and  fret,  till  the  wine  becomes  vinegar,  and  the 
milk  sour. 

160 


There  is  that  scattereth,  and  yet  increaseth. 

Prav.  xi.  24, 

THIS  scattering  is  a  conception  borrowed  from 
the  husbandman.  From  out  of  his  barns  he 
takes  the  precious  seed,  and  scatters  it  broadcast. 
The  child  of  the  city  might  wonder  at  his 
prodigality,  little  weening  that  each  of  the  scat- 
tered seeds  may  live  in  a  hundred  more,  and 
perpetuate  itself  for  successive  autumns. 

We  are  bidden  to  measure  our  life  by  its  losses 
rather  than  by  its  gains ;  by  the  blood  poured 
out,  rather  than  by  its  storage  in  the  arteries  of 
life;  by  its  sacrifices,  rather  than  its  self-preser- 
vation ;  by  its  gifts,  rather  than  its  accumulations. 
He  is  the  richest  man  in  the  esteem  of  the  world 
who  has  gotten  most ;  he  is  richest  in  the  esteem 
of  heaven  who  has  given  most. 

And  it  is  so  ordered  that  as  we  give  we  get. 
If  we  miserly  hoard  the  grain,  it  is  eaten  by 
weevils ;  if  we  cast  it  away  it  returns  to  us  multi- 
plied. Stagnant  water  is  covered  with  scum; 
flowing  water  is  fresh  and  living.  He  who  gives 
his  five  barley  loaves  and  two  small  fishes  into 
the  hands  of  Jesus  sees  the  people  fed  and  gets 
twelve  baskets  over.  Tell  out  all  you  know,  and 
you  will  have  enough  for  another  meal,  and  yet 
another.  Set  no  limit  to  your  gifts  of  money, 
time,  energy;  in  the  act  of  giving  the  whole  that 
you  have  expended  will  return  to  you,  and  more 
also.  Freely  ye  have  received,  freely  give ;  freely 
give,  and  freely  ye  will  receive.  "  He  that  sowelh 
sparingly  shall  reap  also  sparingly;  and  he  that 
soweth  bountifully  shall  reap  also  bountifully. 
.  .  .  And  He  that  supplieth  seed  to  the  sower, 
and  bread  for  food,  shall  supply  and  multiply 
your  seed  for  sowing,  and  increase  the  fruits  of 
your  righteousness,  ye  being  enriched  in  every- 
thing unto  all  liberality." 
161 


The  wicked  is  snared  by  the  transgression  of  his 

lips.  Prov.  xii.  ij. 

IT  has  been  well  remarked  that  God  has  set 
many  snares  in  the  very  constitution  and  order  of 
the  world  for  the  detection  and  punishment  of 
evil-doers.  Amongst  others,  is  the  liar's  own 
tongue.  Watch  a  criminal  trial,  and  you  will 
find  abundant  illustrations  of  this  in  the  detec- 
tion of  a  false  witness,  who  makes  statement  after 
statement,  which  are  not  only  inconsistent  with 
truth,  but  with  each  other.  Presently  he  comes 
to  a  point,  where  he  falls  into  one  of  his  own  lies, 
which  he  had  forgotten,  and  lies,  floundering  like 
a  wild  beast  in  a  snare.  It  is  impossible  for  a 
liar  to  imitate  the  severe  and  inflexible  majesty  of 
truth.  In  his  endeavor  to  appear  true,  he  will 
fall  into  a  trap  of  his  own  setting. 

But  whilst  the  wicked  goes  into  a  snare,  the 
righteous  shall  come  out  of  trouble.  It  is  not 
said  that  he  will  always  escape  it.  Our  Master 
clearly  foretold  that  all  lives  which  were  moulded 
on  the  example  of  His  own  would  pass  through 
similar  experiences.  For  them  also  the  bitter 
hatred  of  the  world,  the  title  Beelzebub,  and  at 
last  the  cross.  ''But  the  just  shall  come  out  of 
trouble."  It  is  not  possible  that  we  should  be 
holden  by  it.  We  belong  to  Him  who  has  come 
out  of  the  great  tribulation.  Just  now  we  may 
be  following  the  serried  ranks  down  into  the 
heart  of  the  sea,  on  either  hand  the  heaped-up 
billows,  and  the  stars  hidden  by  the  pale  of 
thunder-cloud.  But  He  who  led  us  in  will  lead 
us  out.  On  yonder  bank  we  shall  stand  among 
the  victors.  That  weary  hand  shall  wave  the 
victor's  palm ;  that  tired  head  shall  be  crowned 
with  light.  Listen  to  the  voices  that  come  from 
that  radiant  shore  :  Be  of  good  cheer,  I  have 
overcome  the  world  :  and,  Be  thou  faithful  unto 
death,  and  I  will  give  thee  a  crown  of  life, 
163 


He  that  guaj-deth  his  month  keepeth  his  life. 

Prov.  xiii.  j  (r.  V,). 

WHAT  we  say  influences  others,  but  it  has  a 
reflex  influence  on  ourselves.  When  we  speak 
unadvisedly  and  impurely,  we  sow  seeds  of  ill 
harvests  not  in  others  only,  but  in  ourselves,  and 
the  very  utterance  injures  us.  When,  on  the 
other  hand,  we  refuse  to  give  expression  to  a 
wrong  or  unkind  thought,  we  choke  and  strangle 
it. 

Will  each  reader  and  hearer  of  these  words 
carefully  bear  this  in  mind.  If  you  express  what 
is  uncharitable  or  wrong,  you  gratify  the  evil  na- 
ture that  is  in  you,  and  you  strengthen  it.  If, 
on  the  contrary,  you  refuse  to  express  it,  you 
strike  a  death-blow  at  the  cursed  thing  itself. 
When  you  guard  your  mouth  you  keep  your  life, 
because  you  weaken  that  which  is  gnawing  in- 
sidiously at  the  root  of  your  life.  If  there  is  fire 
in  a  room,  be  sure  not  to  open  door  or  window ; 
for  air  is  its  fuel  and  food.  And  if  a  fire  is  burn- 
ing within  you,  be  sure  not  to  give  it  vent.  What 
goes  forth  from  you  defiles  you.  Would  you  see 
good  days  ?     Refrain  your  lips  from  evil. 

Perhaps  you  find  yourself  unable  to  guard  your 
mouth.  You  are  only  discovering  the  truth  of 
those  terrible  words;  "  The  tongue  is  a  fire,  the 
world  of  iniquity  among  our  members  is  the  tongue 
which  defileth  the  whole  body,  and  setteth  on  fire 
the  wheel  of  nature,  and  is  set  on  fire  by  hell.  .  .  . 
The  tongue  can  no  man  tame ;  it  is  a  restless 
evil,  full  of  deadly  poison."  If  man  cannot  tame 
it,  the  Saviour  can.  Cry  tq  Him  then,  saying, 
'•Set  a  watch,  O  Lord,  before  my  mouth  ;  keep 
the  door  of  my  lips."  The  fire  of  God's  love 
will  burn  out  the  fire  of  hell.  Hand  the  bridle, 
or  rudder,  as  the  apostle  James  calls  it,  over  to 
Him. 

"  Take  my  lips,  and  let  them  be 
Fill  with  messages  from  Thee." 
163 


A  Tranquil  Heart. 

Prw.  xiv.  so  (R.  v.,  marg.'). 

IF  we  would  have  a  tranquil  heart,  we  must 
resolutely  put  from  us  the  ambition  to  get  name 
and  reputation  among  men,  to  exert  wider  in- 
fluence for  its  own  sake,  and  to  amass  large  ac- 
cumulation of  money.  Directly  we  begin  to  vie 
with  others,  to  emulate  them,  or  compare  our 
position  and  influence  with  theirs ;  directly  we 
allow  strong  desires  to  roam  unchecked  through 
our  nature  ;  directly  we  live  on  the  breath  of 
popular  applause,  we  are  like  those  who  step 
from  the  pier  on  a  rocking  boat — all  hope  of 
tranquillity  is  at  an  end. 

"  In  God's  will,"  Dante  said,  *'  is  our  peace." 
When  the  government  is  on  His  shoulder,  of  its 
increase  and  of  our  peace  there  is  no  end.  Would 
you  have  your  peace  flow  as  a  river  ? — then  rest 
in  the  Lord,  be  silent  unto  Him ;  fret  not  thy- 
self; turn  away  from  the  things  that  are  seen  and 
temporal ;  set  thy  face  to  those  that  are  unseen 
and  eternal.  Live  in  the  secret  place  of  the 
Most  High,  and  hide  under  the  shadow  of  the 
Almighty.  Say  of  the  Lord  that  He  is  thy  for- 
tress and  high  tower.  Put  God  between  thyself 
and  everything.  Let  the  one  aim  of  thy  life  be 
to  please  Him,  and  do  the  one  small  piece  of 
work  He  has  entrusted  thee  with.  Look  away 
from  all  others  to  Him  alone.  And  learn  to  look 
out  on  others  with  a  tender  sympathetic  gaze, 
turning  to  prayer  about  them  and  all  things  else 
that  might  ruflle  and  sadden.  Let  all  thy  re- 
quests be  made  known  unto  God,  so  shall  His 
peace  keep  heart  and  mind. 

"  Draw  me  to  Thee,  till  far  within  Thy  rest, 

In  stillness  of  Thy  peace.  Thy  voice  I  hear- 
Forever  quieted  upon  Thy  breast, 
So  loved,  so  near." 

164 


The  prayer  of  the  upright  is  His  delight. 

Prov.  XV.  8. 

WE  too  seldom  consider  the  pleasure  that  the 
prayer  of  His  people  gives  to  God.  Often  we 
go  to  Him  with  no  other  thought  than  to  find  re- 
lief from  the  pressure  of  anxiety  or  sin.  We 
hardly  realize  that  He  is  looking  for  our  coming 
because  He  loves  us.  Thus  nothing  delights 
Him  more  than  the  time  we  consecrate  for  heart- 
felt fellowship  with  Him.  Think,  O  child  of 
God,  when  next  the  hour  of  prayer  comes  round, 
that  God  is  waiting  for  you.  Would  you  cause 
Him  disappointment  by  curtailing  it,  and  by 
passing  cursorily  through  a  form,  when  He  looks 
for  the  fellowship  of  the  soul  ?  Remember  how 
Jesus  said,  *'The  Father  seeketh  such  to  worship 
Him." 

The  prayer  which  gives  God  delight  is  one 
which  is  characterized  thus: — (i)  It  must  be  an 
identification  with  the  prayer  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 
In  Him  alone  can  the  Father  take  delight,  and 
in  us  only  as  far  as  we  are  in  the  Beloved,  and 
He  in  us.  (2)  We  must  come  in  full  assurance 
of  faith,  our  hearts  sprinkled  from  an  evil  con- 
science, and  our  lives  rid  of  all  known  inconsist- 
ency and  impurity.  (3)  We  must  give  time  for 
God  to  speak  to  us.  Rev.  Andrew  Murray  says, 
"Bow  quietly  before  Him  in  humble  faith  and 
adoration.  God  is.  God  is  near.  God  is  love, 
longing  to  make  Himself  known."  (4)  Lie  very 
low  before  God.  Sink  down  before  Him  in  the 
lowest  dust  of  self-abasement,  reckoning  yourself 
to  be  nothing.  (5)  Present  yourself  to  God  that 
He  may  fulfill  through  you  His  own  loving  pur- 
poses. 

In  the  Book  of  Revelation,  we  are  bidden  to 
behold  the  Angel  of  the  Covenant  mingling  much 
incense  with  the  prayers  of  all  the  saints.  That 
incense  is  the  merit  of  Jesus,  which  makes  our 
prayers  delightful  (Rev.  viii.  3-5). 
165 


Roll  thy  7Vorks  unto  the  Lord,  and  thy  purposes 
shall  be  established.         Prov.  xvi.  j  (r.  v.,  marg.). 

THERE  are  four  matters  wliich  we  are  to  roll 
upon  God  — ourselves,  as  the  Messiah  in  Psa. 
xxii. ;  our  burden;  our  way;  and  here  our 
works.  The  genesis  of  Christian  work  is  on  this 
wise.  We  become  conscious  of  the  uprising  of  a 
noble  purpose.  We  are  not  sure  at  first  whether 
it  is  of  God  or  not,  till  we  have  taken  time  to 
subject  it  to  the  winnowing  fan  of  His  good 
Spirit.  It  is  always  wise  to  subject  it  to  the  fire 
of  His  criticism  before  it  takes  shape.  Even 
then,  however,  all  is  not  done.  We  must  sub- 
mit our  plans  before  they  are  executed,  our 
methods  by  which  they  are  being  executed,  and 
the  results  of  the  execution,  to  the  infinite  wis- 
dom of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

What  a  comfort  it  is  to  roll  our  works  upon 
God  !  That  servant  of  God  who  is  carrying  the 
responsibilities  of  a  vast  missionary  enterprise  ! 
That  preacher  with  his  church  and  organizations  ! 
That  promoter  of  philanthropic  and  ameliorative 
agencies  !  Let  them  roll  their  works  upon  God, 
and  be  content  to  take  the  subordinate  place  of 
acting  as  His  agents  and  executors.  The  heart 
will  be  light,  and  the  hands  free,  if  only  we  can 
learn  the  blessed  secret  of  imposing  the  responsi- 
bility and  anxiety  of  our  efficiency,  finance,  and 
success  on  Jehovah.  Roll  thy  works,  and  see 
that  they  do  not  roll  back  again.  Put  on  the 
arrest  of  faith  to  make  them  keep  their  position. 
Reckon  that  God  takes  what  you  give;  and 
when  you  have  let  your  works  go,  be  sure  to  cast 
yourself  after  them  on  His  patient  carefulness. 
Remember  that  He  desires  to  work  in  us  to  will 
and  to  work  for  His  good  pleasure.  Do  not 
worry,  nor  fret,  nor  be  always  looking:  for  results. 
Do  your  best,  and  leave  the  rest  to  Him,  who  is 
our  rearward.  He  will  follow  up  your  efforts 
and  establish  the  work  of  your  hands. 
166 


He  that  spareth  his  words  hath  knowledge. 

Prov.  xvii.  27  (R.  v.). 

THE  A.  V.  and  r.  v.  tnarg.  suggest  a  better 
rendering,  "  He  that  hath  knowledge  spareth  his 
words."  It  is  a  wise  thing  to  say  as  little  as  pos- 
sible to  man,  and  as  much  as  possible  to  God. 
The  ultimate  test  of  friendship  has  always  seemed 
to  me  to  be  in  the  ability  of  true  friends  to  be 
silent  in  each  other's  presence.  In  silence  we 
best  may  open  the  heart  to  receive  the  infiUings 
of  the  Divine  Spirit.  When  people  are  always 
talking  to  one  another,  even  though  they  talk 
about  God,  they  are  liable  to  lose  the  first  fresh 
sense  of  God's  presence. 

Ordinary  conversation  greatly  weakens  char- 
acter. It  is  like  the  perpetual  running  of  a  tap 
which  inevitably  empties  the  cistern.  It  seems 
to  me  disastrous  when  the  whole  of  a  summer 
holiday  is  spent  in  contact  with  friends,  however 
dear,  who  leave  no  time  for  the  communing  of 
the  soul  with  itself,  nature,  and  God.  We  can- 
not be  perpetually  in  society,  speaking  to  the 
nearest  and  dearest,  without  saying  things  which 
will  afterward  cause  us  regret.  We  shall  have 
spoken  too  much  of  ourselves,  or  too  little  of 
Christ,  or  too  much  about  others;  or  we  shall 
have  allowed  the  things  of  the  world  and  sense 
to  bulk  too  largely.  Besides,  it  is  only  in  silence 
and  thought  that  our  deepest  life  matures,  or  the 
impressions  of  eternity  are  realized.  If  we  are 
always  talking,  we  give  no  opportunity  for  the 
ripening  of  the  soul.  Nothing  makes  the  soul 
more  fruitful  than  to  leave  it  fallow.  Who  would 
pick  a  crop  of  fruit  when  first  it  began  to  appear 
on  the  trees?  Live  deep.  Speak  as  little  as  you 
may.     Be  slow  to  speak,  and  swift  to  hear. 

"  Not  seldom  ceases  outward  speech  awhile, 
That  the  inner,  isled  in  calm,  may  clearer  sound," 

167 


His  neighbor  cometh  and  searcheth  him  out. 

Prov.  xviii.  ly. 

IT  is  easy  to  boast  of  what  we  are  or  are  not ; 
but  the  real  question  is  as  to  what  others  think  of 
us.  A  Christian  lady  told  me  that  a  little  time 
ago  she  went  to  a  meeting  where  one  after  an- 
other arose  to  say  how  long  they  had  been  with- 
out sin.  When  an  opportunity  was  given,  she 
asked  simply  if  they  might  be  allowed  to  hear 
something,  from  those  who  had  lived  with  the 
persons  that  had  been  so  loudly  expressing  them- 
selves ;  because  she  said  that  she  had  observed 
that  the  opinions  of  those  who  shared  the  same 
room  or  home  as  Christian  professors  were  apt  to 
vary  greatly  from  those  of  the  professors  them- 
selves. 

It  is  a  grave  question  for  us  all — what  do  our 
neighbors  and  associates  think  of  us?  Would 
they  credit  us  with  the  highest  attainments  in 
Christian  living?  Would  they  concede  the  real- 
ity and  beauty  of  our  characters?  After  all, 
may  not  we  be  mistaking  our  ideals  for  our  at- 
tainments, and  judging  ourselves  by  a  lower 
standard  than  we  apply  to  others?  Might  not 
our  wives  and  sisters,  our  husbands  and  brothers, 
search  us?  It  is  so  much  easier  to  plead  our 
own  cause  in  a  meeting  than  to  stand  clear  in  the 
searching  scrutiny  of  the  home. 

And  if  our  neighbors  search  us,  what  does 
God  think  of  us  as  the  fierce  light  of  His  eyes 
scans  us  and  reads  our  deepest  secrets  ?  What 
should  we  do  were  it  not  for  the  Blood  of  Christ  ? 
I  used  to  hesitate  once  to  call  myself  a  miserable 
sinner;  but  as  I  know  myself  better,  I  begin  to 
feel  that  it  is  a  reasonable  designation.  That  is 
what  we  are  by  nature,  though  we  have  been 
made  by  divine  grace,  children,  heirs,  joint-heirs 
with  Christ.  Job,  the  righteous  man,  confessed 
himself  vile  when  God's  light  revealed  him. 
168 


He  that  hath  pity  upofi  the  poor  lendeth  unto  the 
Lord.  Prov.  xix.  17  (R.  v.). 

WHAT  a  revolution  would  be  wrought  among 
us  if  we  really  believed  this  !  We  are  glad  to 
lend  to  our  friends  in  a  temporary  strait,  espe- 
cially when  we  know  that  our  money  is  safe  and 
will  come  back  to  us  with  a  substantial  increase. 
To  have  an  I  O  U  is  quite  sufficient.  But  in  the 
liglit  of  this  text  we  are  taught  to  look  on  God 
as  the  great  Borrower.  He  comes  to  us,  asking 
that  we  will  lend  to  Him.  In  every  needy  one 
who  deserves  our  aid  the  request  of  the  Almighty 
may  be  heard  asking  a  loan. 

What  mistakes  we  make?  We  think  we  keep 
what  w£  hold  and  invest  well.  But  we  really 
keep  what  we  give  away.  The  best  investments 
are  the  heavenly  shares  and  stocks,  which  are 
found  in  the  needs  and  sorrows  of  the  poor. 
Will  you  not,  my  reader,  resolve  that  you  will 
begin  to  lend  to  the  Lord  in  the  person  of  those 
who  need  your  help,  whether  for  their  personal 
necessities  or  the  work  in  which  they  are  inter- 
ested ?  You  are  called  to  be  a  steward  of  God's 
free  gifts  to  you.  You  must  be  ready,  as  His 
almoner,  to  deal  out  His  wealth.  He  will  pay 
you  for  doing  it,  by  giving  you  your  own  present 
maintenance  ;  and  one  day  He  will  say,  "  I  was 
hungry,  and  you  fed  Me;  thirsty,  and  you  gave 
me  drink :   inherit  the  place  prepared  for  you." 

Just  ponder  the  magnificence  of  this  promise  : 
"  His  good  deed  will  He  pay  him  again."  God 
will  never  be  in  your  debt.  He  is  exact  and 
punctilious  in  His  repayment.  No  man  ever 
dared  to  do  His  bidding  in  respect  to  any  case  of 
need,  and  found  himself  the  poorer.  "  Give, 
and  it  shall  be  given  to  you ;  good  measure, 
pressed  down  and  running  over  shall  they  give 
into  your  bosom."  Was  not  Ruth's  love  to 
Naomi  well  compensated  ? 
169 


The  spirit  of  man  is  the  candle  of  the  Lord. 

Prov.  XX.  2^. 

SEE  that  row  of  unlighted  candles,  standing  in 
silver  sockets,  chased  and  wrought  with  wondrous 
skill — such  are  the  souls  of  men  by  nature,  rich 
in  attainments  and  generous  impulses,  highly  ed- 
ucated, perhaps,  apparently  fit  for  high  and  glo- 
rious work,  but  they  have  no  light.  They  are  a 
puzzle  to  themselves  and  others.  Whilst  another, 
who  has  none  of  their  powers  or  advantages, 
casts  a  glow  on  his  age,  which  lingers  long  after 
he  has  gone.  He  is  like  a  common  candle,  but 
lit.     The  spark  from  God  has  ignited  his  soul. 

But  remember  that  while  the  candle  shines  with 
the  light  of  God,  it  wastes.  The  slowly-dwind- 
ling length  shows  the  amount  of  the  inevitable 
expenditure.  Our  Lord  said  of  the  Baptist, 
"  He  was  a  burning  and  shining  light."  There 
must  be  burning  before  there  can  be  shining; 
we  must  suffer  in  order  to  serve.  It  is  good  to 
know  this,  for  it  gives  purpose  to  pain.  "I  cried 
to  Thee,  O  Lord,  and  unto  Thee  I  made  suppli- 
cation. What  profit  is  there  in  my  blood?" 
What  profit  !  If  we  only  knew  that,  the  pain 
might  be  borne  proudly  and  lightly.  Oh,  never 
dare  to  think  of  blessing  men,  except  at  a  cost 
of  blood  and  tears,  that  may  seem  to  thee  as  a 
guttering  candle,  the  wax  of  which  is  flowing 
down  in  trickling  streams,  or  curling  up  in  rugged 
contortions ! 


'« Therefore,  O  Lord,  I  will  not  fail  nor  falter. 
Nay,  but  I  ask  it ;  nay,  but  I  desire  — 
Lay  on  my  lips  Thine  embers  of  the  altar, 
Seal  with  the  string,  and  furnish  with  the  fire. 

•'  Quick  in  a  moment,  infinite  forever, 
Send  an  arousal  better  than  I  pray; 
Give  me  a  grace  upon  the  faint  endeavor. 
Souls  for  my  hire,  and  Pentecost  to-day." 
170 


The  heart  .  .  .  as  the  watercourses. 

Prov.  xxi.  I  (R.  v.). 

MADAME  GUYON  says  that  there  are  three 
classes  of  souls  that  may  be  compared  to  rivers 
flowing  toward  God  as  their  ocean. 

1.  Some  move  on  sluggishly  and  feebly.  These 
are  often  discouraged,  dwell  much  in  the  outer 
and  emotional,  and  fail  to  seek  God  with  their 
whole  strength. 

2.  Some  proceed  decidedly  and  rapidly. 
These  have  large  hearts,  and  are  quick  in  their 
responses  to  God's  Spirit. 

3.  Some  press  on  in  headlong  impetuosity. 
This  comparison  of  our  hearts  to  watercourses 

filled  with  torrents  from  the  hills  is  a  very  beauti- 
ful one,  and  is  capable  of  great  expansion. 

Watercourses  need  fresh  supplies  of  water 
from  the  hills :  and  our  hearts  are  in  constant 
need  of  freshets  from  the  everlasting  fountain  of 
God's  nature. 

Watercourses  must  fulfill  their  ministry  in  all 
weathers :  and  we  must  continue  patiently  in 
faith  and  well-doing,  whatever  be  our  circum- 
stances or  emotions.  If  we  fail,  the  whole  land 
will  be  smitten  with  drought. 

Watercourses  end  in  merging  their  waters  with 
the  ocean  tides  :  so  God  will  one  day  be  all  in 
all. 

Will  you  let  God  lead  your  heart  whither  He 
will?  Just  as  a  husbandman  will  cut  water- 
courses in  different  directions  to  conduct  the  flow 
of  the  water,  so  will  you  not  let  God  lead  your 
life?  You  can  be  a  watercourse  :  He  must  give 
the  water.  Only  be  content,  like  the  river-bed, 
to  lie  deep  hidden  beneath  the  waters ;  not  no- 
ticed or  thanked  by  those  that  stoop  to  drink  the 
refreshing  draughts.  It  is  impossible  for  the 
water  to  pass  through  you  without  nourishing 
your  own  soul. 

171 


Thorns  and  snares  are  in  the  way  of  the  froward. 

Prov.  xxii.  j. 

THIS  is  due  to  the  love  of  God,  shown  in  the 
constitution  of  the  world.  It  would  have  been 
malignity  indeed  to  have  placed  us  in  the  world 
without  the  warning  signal  of  pain  to  show  us 
where  we  are  wrong,  and  to  sting  us  when  we  go 
astray.  By  the  pitiful  mercy  of  our  Creator, 
pain  is  the  inevitable  consequence  of  the  breach 
of  physical  and  moral  law ;  thus  men  are  shown 
that  they  are  on  the  wrong  path,  and  driven  back 
to  repentance  and  rectitude.  The  Greek  motto 
said  :     *'  Pain  is  therefore  gain." 

You  say  that  there  are  many  who  suffer,  who 
are  among  the  holiest  and  meekest  of  mankind ; 
and  you  wonder  how  it  is  that  those  snares  have 
come  so  plentifully  to  their  share.  But  you  must 
remember  that  though  an  individual  may  not 
have  broken  the  law  himself  in  any  special  sense, 
yet  he  inherits  broken  law.  By  virtue  of  his 
union  with  a  sinful  race  he  reaps  a  harvest  sown 
by  others'  sins ;  and  by  bearing  it  meekly  and 
lovingly  he  enters  into  union  with  some  aspects 
of  the  death  of  Christ,  and  fills  up  that  which  is 
behind  of  his  sufferings.  When  wrong  is  borne 
sweetly  and  uncomplainingly,  some  froward  deed 
that  started  long  before,  and  had  been  cursing 
the  world,  is  forever  arrested  and  cancelled ;  as 
a  cannon  ball  in  a  bank  of  sand. 

But,  in  addition,  there  are  some  who  suffer  ac- 
cording to  the  will  of  God.  Pain,  beneath  the 
touch  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  is  in  the  highest  de- 
gree disciplinary.  As  the  angels  watch  the  result 
on  a  soul  of  God's  sharp  ordeal  of  suffering, 
they  say : 

"  The  keen  sanctity, 
Which  with  its  effluence,  like  a  glory,  clothed 
And  circled  round  the  Crucified,  has  seized 
And  scorched,  and  shrivelled  it." 
172 


£e  thou  in  the  fear  of  the  Lord  all  the  day  long. 

Prov.  xxiii.  ij. 

I  ASKED  a  working  man  the  other  day  how 
he  fared.  His  wife,  the  partner  of  many  years, 
has  died,  and  there  is  no  one  to  welcome  him  on 
his  return  from  work  and  prepare  for  him.  His 
fellow  workmen,  younger  men,  delight  in  tor- 
menting him  and  increasing  his  arduous  toils,  be- 
cause they  hate  his  simple  godliness.  A  physical 
weakness  grows  upon  him  distressingly.  But  he 
said  that  he  was  very  happy,  because  he  lived  in 
God.  All  the  way  along  it  was  Jesus — Jesus 
when  he  woke  in  the  morning ;  Jesus  when  he 
went  to  bed  at  night ;  Jesus  when  he  wrote  a  let- 
ter; Jesus  when  he  went  to  the  butcher's  shop  to 
buy  his  little  piece  of  meat  for  Sunday — Said  he, 
**He  made  the  beasts;  He  must  know  what  is 
good  to  eat."  And  when  I  asked  how  he  man- 
aged to  maintain  this  life,  he  said,  "I  always 
ask  Him  to  rouse  me  up  early  enough  to  have  a 
good  time  in  fellowship  with  the  Master."  From 
the  way  he  spoke,  he  reminded  me  of  the  priest's 
portion  of  the  shoulder  and  breast  as  symbolizing 
the  strength  and  love  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

If  we  are  in  the  love  of  God  we  shall  be  in 
His  fear ;  for  though  perfect  love  casts  out  fear 
that  hath  torment,  it  introduces  the  fear  that 
dares  not  cause  needless  pain  to  the  Infinite 
Lover  of  souls.  We  fear  to  tear  open  His 
wounds  again,  to  expose  His  heart  to  the  spear- 
thrust,  or  to  miss  aught  of  His  gracious  pains  to 
make  us  what  He  wants  us  to  become. 

*'If  ye  keep  My  commandments,"  the  Master 
said,  '*  ye  shall  abide  in  My  love."  To  abide  in 
His  fear  is  equivalent  to  abiding  in  His  love. 
They  are  two  sides  of  the  same  coin.  Only  they 
love  who  fear.  The  woman  feared  Solomon's 
sword,  because  the  babe  was  her  own. 
173 


If  Thou  forbear  to  deliver  them  that  are  drawn 
unto  death.    .   .   .  Frov.  xxiv.  ii,  12. 

CHRIST  has  greatly  added  to  the  convicting 
power  of  truth.  Before  His  time  men  were 
taught  that  it  was  wrong  to  do  wrong ;  but  He 
taught  that  it  was  wrong  not  to  do  right.  In  the 
Christian  church  we  confess  that  we  have  done 
the  things  that  we  ought  not  to  have  done — we 
do  this  in  common  with  all  men  that  acknowledge 
the  rule  of  conscience.  But  we  are  taught  by 
our  Lord,  and  by  such  passages  as  this,  to  go 
farther,  and  confess  that  we  have  not  done  the 
things  that  we  ought  to  have  done.  This  is  our 
great  and  damning  crime. 

The  priest  and  Levite  that  did  not  go  to  the 
help  of  the  wounded  traveller ;  the  servant  who 
simply  did  not  use  the  Lord's  money;  the  na- 
tions that  did  not  feed,  clothe,  or  visit  Him  in 
the  persons  of  the  distressed  ;  the  virgins  who 
had  7iot  oil  in  their  vessels;  the  trees  that  did 
not  bear — these  Christ  held  up  to  shame  and 
everlasting  contempt.  We  cannot  ignore  the 
evil  around  us,  and  say  we  are  not  responsible 
for  it.  We  cannot  shut  our  eyes  and  avert  our 
faces  from  wrongdoing,  and  tyranny,  and  op- 
pression. We  cannot  profess  that  it  is  not  our 
business,  whosoever  else's  it  may  be,  without  it 
becoming  known  to  the  Searcher  of  all  hearts, 
who  will  certainly  reckon  it  against  us  on  the 
day  of  account.  Not  to  do  is  to  incur  Christ's 
displeasure. 

What  a  striking  illustration  is  afforded  to  these 
words  in  the  Book  of  Esther  !  When  the  young 
queen  was  hesitating,  Mordecai  said  very  truly  : 
"If  thou  altogether  boldest  thy  peace  at  this 
time,  then  shall  relief  and  deliverance  arise  to 
the  Jews  from  another  place ;  but  thou  and  thy 
father's  house  shall  perish :  and  who  knoweth 
whether  thou  art  not  come  to  the  kingdom  for 
such  a  time  as  this?" 


If  thine  enemy  he  hungry,  give  him  bread  to  eat. 

PrOV.  XXV.  21,  32. 

THE  pagan  ideal  of  a  manly  life  was  to  suc- 
ceed in  doing  as  much  good  to  your  friends,  and 
as  much  injury  to  your  enemies,  as  possible.  A 
few  exceptions  to  this  rule  are  recorded ;  but  the 
wonder  at  them  proves  that  the  sentiments  of  for- 
giveness and  mercy  were  foreign  to  popular  mo- 
rality and  public  opinion.  How  different  is  the 
teaching  of  the  Bible  !  and  in  this  have  we  not 
an  evidence  of  its  Divine  authority?  Our  Lord 
went  further  even  than  this  noble  maxim;  He 
said,  "Love  your  enemies,  and  pray  for  them 
which  persecute  you." 

We  are  not  taught  to  be  entirely  indifferent  to 
the  moral  qualities  of  actions.  The  perception 
of  sin  and  evil  is  necessary  to  a  holy  soul.  And 
it  is  not  required  that  we  should  abjure  that  holy 
resentment  to  wrongdoing,  to  which  the  apostle 
alludes  when  he  says,  "Be  ye  angry,  and  sin 
not."  We  must  always  resent  wrong  as  wrong, 
though  we  must  carefully  eliminate  any  vindictive 
feeling  toward  the  wrongdoer. 

Do  you  think  that  others  have  wronged  you? 
Pity  them ;  pray  for  them ;  seek  them  out ; 
show  them  their  fault,  humbly  and  meekly  ;  wash 
their  feet ;  take  the  mote  out  of  their  eye ;  seek 
to  restore  them  in  a  spirit  of  meekness,  remem- 
bering that  you  may  be  tempted  ;  heap  coals  of 
loving-kindness  on  their  heads ;  bring  them  if 
possible  into  such  a  broken  and  tender  frame  of 
mind,  that  they  may  seek  forgiveness  at  your 
hand  and  God's.  If  you  cannot  act  thus  with  all 
the  emotion  you  would  feel,  do  it  because  it  is 
right,  and  the  emotion  will  inevitably  follow. 
It  was  said  of  Archbishop  Leighton,  that  to 
do  him  an  injury  was  to  secure  his  lasting  friend- 
ship. 

176 


For  lack  of  7vood  the  fire  goeth  out. 

Prov.  xxvi.  20  (R.  v.). 

HOW  simple  a  parable  1  Of  course  it  must  be 
so.  As  soon  as  a  fire  has  reached  the  end  of  the 
material  on  which  it  fed,  it  expires. 

This  is  true  of  the  fire  of  slander.  As  long  as 
there  is  an  ear  to  receive,  and  a  tongue  to  pass 
on,  some  piece  of  malicious  slander  will  continue 
to  circulate.  But  directly  it  reaches  a  hearer 
who  will  not  whisper  it  forward,  in  that  direction 
at  least  its  progress  is  arrested.  Why  do  you  not 
adopt  this  role^  and  urge  others  to  do  so  ?  Hear 
if  you  must  the  whisper  of  the  slanderer  ;  but  let 
it  stop  with  you,  locked  in  the  secret  of  your 
own  breast.  You  may  be  voted  rather  uninter- 
esting and  stupid  by  a  certain  society  which 
thrives  in  whispered  calumnies;  but  you  will 
save  many  a  heart  from  being  torn  and  lacerated 
by  unkindness  and  falsehood. 

How  graphic  that  word  "whisperer "  is  !  Peo- 
ple always  tell  you  to  be  sure  not  to  tell ;  it  is  a 
way  they  have,  though  they  do  not  expect  you 
for  a  moment  to  keep  the  story  to  yourself.  It  is 
the  kiss  under  which  they  betray.  Always  tell 
them  that  you  refuse  to  be  an  accomplice  in  evil. 
If  there  is  a  wrong  concerning  which  you  must 
neither  take  action  nor  speak,  you  had  better  not 
defile  your  ears  with  it. 

This  is  true  of  the  fire  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
You  must  feed  it  by  your  loving  obedience,  your 
study  of  the  Word  of  God,  your  faith  and 
prayer.  Yield  yourself  more  entirely  to  His  pos- 
session. Let  your  spirit,  soul,  and  body,  your 
every  act  and  desire,  be  as  fuel  to  the  Spirit  of 
God.  Pile  up  the  wood  of  continual  sacrifice 
and  self-surrender,  till  the  Divine  fire  reaches  out 
its  hands  toward  heaven.  Even  though  the 
wood,  like  Elijah's,  be  drenched  with  water, 
God's  fire  will  conquer  ! 
176 


The  full  soul  loatheth  an  honeycomb. 

Prov.  xxvii.  f. 

HONEY  was  not  used  in  sacrifices  made  by 
fire  unto  the  Lord.  Its  luscious  taste  may  have 
made  it  an  emblem  of  the  pleasures  of  the  world. 
As  bees  roam  from  flower  to  flower,  sipping 
nectar  here  and  there,  so  does  the  heart  of  the 
worldling  roam  over  the  world  for  satisfaction  ; 
settling  nowhere  for  long,  but  extracting  sweets 
from  a  variety  of  attractive  sources. 

The  best  way  of  combating  worldliness  is  by 
satisfying  the  heart  with  something  better.  The 
full  soul  loatheth  even  the  honeycomb.  When 
the  prodigal  gets  the  fatted  calf,  he  has  no  further 
hankering  after  the  husks  which  the  swine  eat. 
The  girl  who  gets  real  jewels  throws  away  her 
shams;  and  the  child  who  has  become  a  man 
has  no  taste  for  childish  toys  that  once  seemed 
all-important.  This  is  the  meaning  of  the  old 
proverb  :  Love  God,  and  do  as  you  like.  When- 
ever the  spirit  of  worldliness  gets  into  a  congre- 
gation, you  may  be  sure  that  the  teaching  has 
been  defective,  and  that  souls  have  not  been 
made  to  sit  at  the  rich  banquet  of  the  Divine 
providing. 

We  are  reminded  of  the  words  which  the 
psalmist  applied  to  the  Word  of  God  :  *«  Sweeter 
than  honey,  or  the  honeycomb."  Fill  your  heart 
with  God  and  His  sacred  truth,  and  the  things  of 
the  world  will  lose  their  charm.  Do  you  know 
this  absorbing  love  of  Jesus?  We  can  at  least 
choose  to  know  it,  and  present  ourselves  to  the 
Holy  Spirit,  that  He  may  shed  it  abroad  in  our 
hearts.  Oh  to  be  full !  Full  of  the  more  abun- 
dant life  of  which  the  Lord  spoke,  of  the  un- 
speakable joy,  of  the  peace  that  passeth  under- 
standing— in  a  word,  of  Jesus,  as  the  Chief  and 
Best. 

177 


He  that  cover eth    his   transgressions   shall  not 
prosper.  Prov.  xxviii.  ij  (r.  v.). 

THERE  must  be  confession  before  forgive- 
ness. This  is  clearly  taught  everywhere  in  God's 
Word.  "If  thy  brother  trespass  against  thee 
seven  times  a  day,  and  seven  times  a  day  turn  to 
thee,  saying,  I  repent,  thou  shalt  forgive  him." 
But  he  must  turn  and  say,  I  repent.  This  is  the 
clear  condition.  You  may  and  must  use  every 
method  of  inducing  him  to  say  this;  but  he  must 
be  brought  to  say  it,  before  it  is  right  to  pro- 
nounce the  gracious  formula  of  absolution.  There 
may  be  the  disposition  to  forgive,  but  there  can- 
not be  the  declaration  of  forgiveness,  until  the 
wrongdoer  perceives  the  wrong  and  expresses  his 
regret  and  sorrow. 

The  prodigal  must  say  to  his  father,  "  I  have 
sinned."  It  is  only  as  we  confess  our  sins,  that 
our  merciful  High  Priest  can  forgive  us  our  sins 
and  cleanse  us  from  all  unrighteousness.  Con- 
fession is  to  take  God's  side  against  sin.  It  is 
the  lifting  out  of  one  thing  after  another  from 
heart  and  life,  and  holding  them  for  a  moment 
before  God,  with  the  acknowledgment  that  it  is 
our  fault,  our  grievous  fault. 

There  is  only  one  way  in  which  transgressions 
can  be  covered :  that  of  which  the  psalmist 
speaks,  when  he  says,  Blessed  is  the  man  whose 
iniquity  is  forgiven,  whose  sin  is  covered,  because 
hidden  under  the  propitiation  of  the  blood.  In 
Hood's  poem,  Eugene  Aram  sought  to  cover  his 
sin  under  the  leaves  of  the  forest,  and  beneath 
the  waters  of  the  river.  But  in  vain.  So  sinners 
try  to  cover  their  sins  in  vain.  But  God  hath  set 
forth  Christ  Jesus  to  be  a  propitiation — a  word 
which  denotes  the  mercy-seat — the  lid  that 
covered  the  stone  slabs  on  which  the  finger  of 
God  had  written  the  Law. 
178 


Where  there  is  no  vision. 

Proro,  xxix.  j8. 

WHAT  a  difference  it  makes  to  our  teaching 
and  preaching  where  there  is  no  vision  !  The 
people  perish  for  want  of  seers  of  those  who  can 
say  with  the  apostle,  "  That  which  we  have  seen 
and  heard,  declare  we  unto  you  also,  that  ye  may 
have  fellowship  with  us."  It  is  not  difficult  to 
know  whether  a  poet  or  painter  has  a  vision. 
If  he  have,  there  is  glow  and  passion  in  his  work. 
And  it  is  not  more  difficult  to  detect  in  the 
accent  of  the  speaker  on  divine  things,  whether 
he  is  speaking  at  second-hand,  or  as  the  result 
of  direct  vision. 

This  vision  of  God  was  vouchsafed  to  Moses 
and  Elijah  and  the  apostle  Paul.  Concerning 
the  latter  God  said,  "  He  shall  be  a  minister  and 
a  witness  of  things  which  he  has  seen."  This  is 
our  only  qualification  for  teaching  others;  not 
intellect,  nor  imagination,  nor  rhetoric,  but  to 
have  seen  the  King  and  beheld  the  pattern  on 
the  mount.  For  such  a  vision,  on  our  part,  there 
must  be  humility,  patience,  and  faith,  a  definite 
withdrawal  from  the  life  of  sense,  and  a  definite 
fixedness  of  gaze  on  the  things  that  are  unseen 
and  eternal.  But  on  God's  part  there  must  be 
revelation.  "  It  pleased  God,"  said  the  Apostle, 
"to  reveal  His  Son  in  me,  that  I  might  preach 
Him." 

The  apostle  said,  **I  could  not  see  for  the 
glory  of  that  light."  A  party  of  tourists  was 
divided  one  dull  morning  in  Switzerland  ;  the 
majority  thought  that  it  was  useless  to  attempt 
the  mountains.  A  few  started,  soon  got  beyond 
the  low-hanging  clouds,  spent  a  day  in  the 
heights  under  marvellous  skies,  and  returned 
at  night,  radiant,  and  overflowing  with  what 
they  had  seen.  Ah,  speaking  is  easy  when  one 
has  seen  / 

179 


Feed  me  with  the  food  that  is  needful  for  me, 

Prov.  XXX.  8  (R.  v.). 

GOD  knows  what  you  need  for  the  maintenance 
of  physical  life  and  strength.  The  body  is  more 
than  meat,  and  to  have  given  you  this  is  a  pledge 
that  He  will  give  you  that.  The  body  is  the 
vehicle  and  organ  of  the  soul ;  and  since  God  has 
given  such  a  wonderful  instrument  into  your 
custody,  He  is  bound  as  need  arises  to  furnish 
needful  supplies.  He  could  not  expect  that  you 
should  do  what  He  has  arranged  should  be  done 
in  your  life,  without  providing  for  the  repair  and 
maintenance  of  the  wonderful  machine  through 
which  alone  your  life-plan  can  be  realized. 
Trust  in  His  faithfulness.  He  cannot  deny  Him- 
self. 

But  there  is  other  food  which  is  needful.  The 
daily  bread  of  love,  of  hope,  of  holy  thought, 
and  fellowship.  There  is  other  hunger  than 
that  of  the  body.  But  this  also  will  be  pro- 
vided, according  as  each  day  requires.  If  the 
human  fails,  the  Divine  will  take  its  place,  and 
God  Himself  will  become  the  complement  of 
your  need.  The  Chinese  Christians  often  put  on 
the  gravestones  of  their  cemeteries  the  words, 
"  They  shall  hunger  no  more,"  in  allusion  to  the 
idea  of  the  Confucians  that  children  must  con- 
stantly be  sending  on  supplies  to  maintain  their 
ancestors.  And  may  we  not  say,  with  unwaver- 
ing certainty,  of  those  who  have  learned  to  be  sat- 
isfied with  God,  *'  They  shall  hunger  no  more  "  ? 

Notice  the  alternative  rendering  of  the  r.  v., 
"The  bread  of  my  portion."  In  God's  gran- 
aries there  is  our  share  of  corn  already  calculated 
for  and  provided.  Let  us  ask  for  and  claim  it. 
We  have  no  wish  to  have  more  than  our  share,  or 
to  despoil  others.  As  Jesus  said,  Give  us  each 
day  the  day's  supply.  O  happy  child  of  the  great 
Father,  His  hired  servants  have  enough  and  to 
spare  ;  there  is  plenty  for  thee ! 
180 


The  heart  of  her  hitsbafid  doth  safely  trust  in  her. 

Prov.  xxxi.  J  I. 

THIS  alphabetical  poem  to  godly  womanhood 
is  one  of  the  gems  of  Old  Testament  Scriptures. 
It  should  be  read  from  the  r.  v.,  that  its  signif- 
icant and  beautiful  touches  may  be  appreciated. 
Clearly  the  Hebrew  woman  was  held  in  high 
honor,  and  had  as  much  freedom  of  action  as  she 
enjoys  in  Christian  countries.  Herein  the  con- 
trast was  very  marked,  as  against  the  women  of 
other  Oriental  nations.  But  in  the  whole  de- 
lineation there  is  hardly  any  trait  more  beautiful 
than  this — absolute  trustworthiness.  You  can 
see  the  pair  together :  The  husband  comes  in 
from  sitting  among  the  elders,  his  heart  weighted 
with  affairs  of  state,  and  he  seeks  her  confidence 
and  advice.  He  has  no  fear  of  her  betraying  his 
secrets.     He  can  safely  trust  her. 

This  surely  is  the  most  sacred  joy  a  woman 
can  have.  To  be  consulted,  to  be  trusted,  to 
share  the  common  toils  and  responsibilities. 
Who  would  not  work  willingly  with  her  hands, 
and  rise  while  yet  night,  and  engage  in  ceaseless 
toils,  if  only  she  had  the  inspiration  that  trust 
brings  ! 

«'  If  then  your  future  life  should  need 
A  strength  my  love  can  only  gain 
Through  suffering — or  my  heart  be  freed 

Only  by  sorrow  from  some  stain, 
Then  you  shall  give,  and  I  will  take 
This  crown  of  fire  for  Love's  dear  sake." 

Can  Christ,  in  like  manner,  safely  trust  us? 
(John  ii.  24,  R.  v.).  Can  He  trust  us  with  His 
secrets.  His  interests.  His  money  ?  Abraham 
was  one  whom  God  could  safely  trust,  and  He 
did  trust  him  as  His  friend :  "  Shall  I  hide 
from  Abraham,  ...  for  I  have  known  him?" 
It  is  required  of  us  also  that  we  be  absolutely 
trustworthy.  It  is  something  to  have  faith ;  yes, 
but  we  must  also  be  faithful. 
181 


All  the  rivers  run  into  the  sea,  yet  the  sea  is  7iot 
full.  Ecd.  i.  7  (r.  v.). 

THE  complaint  of  this  chapter  is  the  tiresome 
monotony  of  existence.  Always  the  same  tedious 
routine  !  The  jaded  soul  of  the  worldling,  who 
has  put  God  out  of  his  life,  sees  nothing  fresh  or 
interesting  anywhere,  and  yawns  with  weariness. 
King  Solomon  had  everything  that  the  world 
could  give  to  make  his  years  rich,  glad,  and  use- 
ful. But  his  heart  turned  away  from  God  to 
things,  from  the  only  true  God  to  idols,  from  the 
spiritual  to  the  sensual,  from  heaven  to  earth ; 
and  he  became  a  jaded  voluptuary,  who  records 
his  experiences  on  these  pages,  to  warn  coming 
generations.  His  words  remind  us  of  Byron's 
lament  at  his  life  being  in  the  sere  and  yellow 
leaf;  of  the  closing  sentence  of  "  Vanity  Fair  "  ; 
and  of  entries  in  the  journals  of  the  world's 
greatest  wits  and  courtiers. 

All  the  rivers  of  earthly  joy  may  be  flowing 
into  your  heart,  but  they  will  never  fill  it.  They 
may  recede,  or  dry  up,  or  ebb ;  but  if  not,  still 
they  will  never  satisfy.  The  pleasures  of  this 
world  after  a  while  become  monotonous,  and  pall 
on  our  taste.  The  appetite  grows  with  its  food. 
But  in  Christ  there  is  perennial  interest.  The 
water  that  He  gives  rises  up  to  eternal  life.  In 
His  love  and  service  there  is  always  satisfaction 
and  blessedness.  We  need  not  go  outside  of 
Him  for  new  delights;  and  to  know  Him  is  to 
possess  a  secret  which  makes  all  things  new. 

I  know  of  a  gentleman,  who  has  everything 
that  wealth  can  give,  but  who  is  kept  in  a  per- 
petual state  of  irritation,  because  he  cannot 
eradicate  the  daisies  from  his  lawn.  There's  a 
freckle  on  every  flower,  a  stain  on  every  leaf,  a 
drawback  in  every  lot,  that  we  may  be  driven  to 
find  perfect  fruition  in  God  only, 
183 


All  his  days  are  but  sorrows ^  and  his  travail  is 
grief.  Eccl.  ii.  23  (r.  v.). 

WHAT  a  glimpse  this  is  into  a  heart  that  has 
put  God  out  !  Solomon's  power  turned  away  his 
heart,  so  that  he  was  not  perfect  with  God,  as 
David,  his  father.  He  drifted  from  God ;  and 
plunged  into  pleasure  and  laughter ;  into  build- 
ing and  planting ;  into  the  pursuit  of  science 
and  learning.  *'  Whatsoever  mine  eyes  desired 
I  kept  not  from  them.  And,  behold,  all  was 
vanity  and  a  striving  after  wind"  (r.  v.). 
Nothing  can  satisfy  us  but  God.  We  were  made 
for  Him  ;  and  the  heart,  as  Augustine  says,  must 
be  forever  restless  till  it  finds  rest  in  Him.  Thus 
the  shell,  brought  home  from  the  seashore  and 
placed  on  the  shelf,  sighs  each  time  you  place  it 
to  your  ear  for  the  ocean  whence  it  came. 

We  have  no  need  to  envy  those  who  prosper  in 
this  world,  but  are  without  God,  and  without 
hope.  Their  days  are  sorrows,  and  their  travail 
is  grief,  and  at  night  their  hearts  take  no  rest. 
But  if  we  are  to  avoid  their  inward  anguish,  we 
must  avoid  their  fatal  mistake,  and  learn  to  take 
God  into  our  lives.  The  river  of  life,  which  is 
the  Holy  Spirit,  flows  at  our  feet ;  but  we  must 
stoop  to  take  it  freely. 

Dr.  Gordon  records  the  story  of  a  traveller  in 
Barbary,  who  saw  a  beautiful  clear  spring  of 
water,  over  which  was  inscribed  the  legend, 
"  Drink ^  and  be  gone.''  Robbers  infested  the 
region,  and  were  constantly  on  the  track  of  the 
traveller,  ready  to  waylay  and  rob  him.  There- 
fore he  must  snatch  the  cooling  draught  and 
hasten  on.  Shall  we  refuse  ourselves  all  pleasure 
in  this  world?  Shall  we  write  Touch  not  on 
every  innocent  gratification?  No;  but  as  soon 
as  we  have  tasted  of  the  pleasant  draught,  and 
lingered  long  enough  to  refresh  our  jaded  souls, 
to  hasten  to  life's  serious  tasks. 
183 


He  has  set  eternity  in  their  heart. 

Eccl.  Hi.  I J  (R.  v.,  marg.), 

THE  Preacher  has  been  enumerating  the 
various  extremes  and  alternatives  of  existence, 
and  the  natural  conclusion  might  seem  to  be  that 
since  each  neutralizes  the  other,  it  might  be  as 
well  for  a  man  to  do  nothing  at  all.  But  a 
deeper  thought  is  suggested.  Man  is  greater 
than  the  changes  around  him  ;  he  has  eternity 
in  his  heart,  and  therefore  all  the  varied  cir- 
cumstances of  human  life  resemble  the  wheels  of 
some  great  machine,  the  cogs  of  which  turn  in 
different  directions,  but  the  effect  is  a  forward 
motion,  and  the  manufacture  of  a  fabric  that 
will  outlive  the  machinery  that  made  it.  We  are 
greater  than  circumstance,  or  change,  or  things. 
We  have  the  capacity  for  the  Eternal  and  Infinite. 
As  the  sea-shell  sighs  for  the  ocean,  so  our  hearts 
cry  out,  though  sometimes  inarticulately,  for  God, 
for  the  living  God.  Christ  said  that  foxes  have 
holes  and  the  birds  their  nests,  but  the  Son  of 
Man  hath  not  where  to  lay  His  head ;  and  this 
is  true  in  another  sense.  The  noblest  men  are 
those  least  able  to  rest  anywhere  short  of  God. 

God  made  man  in  His  own  image ;  and  noth- 
ing more  surely  attests  the  greatness  of  our  origin 
than  those  faculties  of  the  soul  which  are  capable 
of  yearning  for,  conceiving,  and  enjoying  the 
Infinite,  the  Immortal,  and  the  Divine.  And 
every  appetite  in  nature  and  grace  has  its  appro- 
priate satisfaction. 

Let  us  come  to  Him  who  has  the  words  of 
eternal  life,  who  is  Himself  the  Bread  that  en- 
dureth  unto  eternal  life.  He  that  cometh  to 
Him  shall  never  hunger;  he  that  believeth  in 
Him  shall  never  thirst. 

**  Here  would  we  end  our  quest; 
Alone  are  found  in  Thee 
The  life  of  perfect  bliss — the  rest 
Of  immortality." 

184 


Behold^  the  tears  of  such  as  were  oppressed. 

EccL  iv.  I. 
*'  DO  ye  hear  the  children  weeping,  O  my  brothers, 
Ere  the  sorrow  comes  with  years  ? 
They  are  leaning  their  young  heads  against  their  mothers, 

But  that  cannot  stop  their  tears. 
The  young  lambs  are  bleating  in  the  meadows  ; 

The  young  birds  are  chirping  in  the  nest ; 
The  young  fawns  are  playing  with  the  shadows ; 

The  young  flowers  are  blowing  toward  the  west — 
But  the  young,  young  children,  O  my  brothers, 

They  are  weeping  bitterly  ! 
They  are  weeping  in  the  playtime  of  the  others, 
In  the  country  of  the  free." 

IT  is  a  sad,  sad  world,  and  perhaps  must  get 
sadder  yet.  It  may  be  that  we  have  not  yet 
reached  the  darkest  hour.  Oh  the  tears  of  the 
oppressed  ;  the  tiny  children  ;  the  terror-stricken 
fugitives  from  the  Turk,  the  European  trader, 
and  the  drunken  tyrant  of  the  home  !  Through 
all  the  centuries  tears  have  flowed,  enough  to 
float  a  navy. 

There  need  be  no  difficulty  in  accounting  for 
them.  Our  race  has  elected  the  service  of  sin 
and  self.  Turning  our  back  on  God,  for  whom 
we  were  made,  we  have  turned  every  one  to  our 
own  way,  and  are  inheriting  the  ancient  curse  of 
travail,  tears,  thorns,  and  death.  It  is  quite  true 
that  many  sufl'er  innocently  and  vicariously,  be- 
cause we  are  members  one  of  another ;  and  by 
the  mysterious  arrangement  of  the  Almighty  the 
whole  race  is  bound  together  by  mysterious  but 
indissoluble  cords.  In  Adam  all  die,  all  suffer, 
all  sorrow  and  weep,  just  as  in  Christ  shall  all  be 
made  alive.  The  pain  must  last,  till  the  Stronger 
than  the  strong  comes  to  divide  the  spoils,  and 
set  the  captives  free. 

How  comforting  it  is  to  realize  that  God  knows 
our  sorrows,  puts  our  tears  into  His  bottle,  is 
afflicted  in  all  our  affliction,  and  bears  us  on  His 
heart. 

185 


To  draw  nigh  to  hear  is  better  than  to  give  the 
sacrifice  of  fools.  Ecd.  v.  i  (r.  v.). 

THIS  is  certainly  half  of  our  business,  when 
we  kneel  to  pray.  It  is  a  drawing  nigh  to  hear. 
One  has  truly  said  that  the  closet  is  not  so  much 
an  oratory,  in  the  narrow  sense  of  making  re- 
quests, as  an  observatory,  from  which  we  get  new 
views  of  God,  and  new  revelations  of  Him. 

We  are  all  inclined  to  be  rash  with  our  mouth. 
We  rush  into  the  presence  of  God,  leave  our  card 
as  on  a  morning  call,  and  then  plunge  into  the 
eager  rush  of  our  life.  We  have  spoken  to  Him, 
but  not  stayed  to  hear  what  He  would  say  in 
reply.  We  have  suggested  many  things  to  Him, 
but  have  not  sought  for  His  comments,  or  sug- 
gestions, in  return.  We  do  not  take  time  to  fix 
the  heart's  gaze  on  the  unseen  and  eternal,  or  to 
abstract  our  mind  from  the  voices  of  the  world, 
so  as  to  hear  the  still  small  voice  that  speaks  in 
silence  and  solitude. 

"  Only  the  waters  which  in  perfect  stillness  lie 
Give  back  an  undistorted  image  of  the  sky." 

Keep  thy  foot ;  take  off  the  shoes  from  thy 
feet,  when  entering  the  Presence-chamber, 
whether  alone  or  with  others.  Walk  warily  and 
reverently ;  behold  !  He  is  near,  before  whom 
angels  veil  their  faces  with  their  wings.  Come 
into  His  presence  with  holy  fear.  Let  there  be 
no  irreverence  in  demeanor.  One  writes  of  the 
late  Mr.  Gladstone,  "  The  House  of  God  seemed 
to  be  to  him  at  all  times  just  what  its  name  im- 
plied ;  and  it  is  impossible  to  think  of  him  at 
any  service  missing  a  response,  or  forgetting  an 
'  Amen.'  Devotion,  earnestness,  and  concen- 
trated attention  were  the  regular  attributes  of  his 
nature  when  engaged  in  worship.  He  realized 
in  the  simplest  fashion  that  worship  was  com- 
muning with  God." 

186 


Under  the  sun. 

Eccl.  vi,  /. 

THE  Preacher  constantly  refers  to  what  is 
done  under  the  sun  ;  and  is  not  this  the  clue  to 
so  much  that  is  puzzling  in  this  book?  If  your 
horizon  is  limited  to  what  the  sun  shines  on,  it  is 
impossible  to  get  the  true  standpoint  of  vision,  or 
discover  the  real  policy  of  life.  If  this  world 
and  the  time-day  are  all,  we  are  entangled  in  an 
inexplicable  maze.  It  is  impossible  to  believe  in 
the  existence  of  a  benign  and  wise  Creator  unless 
there  is  more  than  we  can  see,  larger  than  we 
can  grasp.  We  have  no  choice  but  blank  ma- 
terialism, unless  we  believe  there  is  Some  one 
and  Something  over  and  above  the  sun,  and  that 
the  sun  and  his  attendant  train  of  worlds  is  but  a 
speck  in  the  vastness  of  his  existence. 

O  Christian  soul,  let  you  and  me  get  beyond 
the  sun,  which  one  day  will  be  no  more,  to  the 
Lord,  who  is  an  everlasting  light.  Let  us  sit 
with  Him  in  the  heavenlies,  and  thence  look 
down  upon  man  and  his  little  life.  What  incon- 
siderable atoms  do  kings  and  empires  appear; 
even  our  affliction  seems  to  be  but  light,  and  for 
a  moment !  Not  on  this  side  of  the  sun,  but  on 
that  lies  our  true  portion  and  home,  our  endur- 
ing substance. 

In  order  to  live  as  we  should,  the  sun  must  be 
under  our  feet,  a  position  which  is  only  possible 
to  those  who  are  in  Christ  Jesus.  "  I  knew  a 
man  in  Christ,"  says  the  Apostle,  "  caught  up 
into  the  third  heaven,  and  he  heard  unspeakable 
things."  Would  you  be  unworldly,  seek  to  be- 
come other-worldly.  Do  you  want  the  sun  to 
grow  dim? — ask  for  the  light  which  is  above  the 
brightness  of  the  sun. 

Set  your  affections  on  those  things  which  are 
above,  where  Christ  sitteth  at  the  right  hand  of 
God. 

187 


By  the  sad?iess  of  the  countenance  the  heart  is 
made  glad.  Eccl.  vH.  j  (r.  v.). 

WHO  does  not  know  that  our  most  sorrowful 
days  have  been  amongst  our  best?  When  the 
face  is  wreathed  with  smiles,  and  we  trip  lightly 
over  meadows  bespangled  with  spring  flowers, 
our  heart  is  often  running  to  waste.  The  soul 
which  is  always  blithe  and  gay  misses  the  deep- 
est life.  It  has  its  reward,  and  it  is  satisfied  to 
its  measure,  though  that  measure  is  a  very  scanty 
one.  But  the  heart  is  dwarfed,  and  the  nature, 
which  is  capable  of  the  highest  heights,  the  deep- 
est depths,  is  undeveloped;  and  life  presently 
burns  down  to  its  socket  without  having  known 
the  resonance  of  the  deepest  chords  of  joy. 
*'  Blessed  are  they  that  mourn." 

Stars  shine  brightest  in  the  long  dark  nights 
of  winter.  The  gentians  show  their  fairest 
bloom  amidst  almost  inaccessible  heights  of  snow 
and  ice.  God's  promises  seem  to  wait  for  the 
pressure  of  pain  to  trample  out  their  richest  juice 
as  in  a  wine-press.  Sorrow  brings  us  nearest  to 
the  Man  of  Sorrows,  and  is  the  surest  passport  to 
His  loving  sympathy.  Only  those  who  have 
sorrowed  know  how  tender  His  comfort  can  be. 
It  is  only  as  the  door  shuts  upon  the  joys  of  the 
earth  that  the  window  is  opened  to  the  blessed- 
ness of  the  unseen  and  eternal.  Let  sadness 
cover  your  face,  Jesus  will  enter  the  heart,  and 
make  it  glad,  for  the  days  in  which  you  have 
been  afflicted,  and  the  years  in  which  you  have 
seen  evil. 

Is  your  face  sad  ?  Are  you  passing  through 
bitter  and  trying  experiences  ?  Be  of  good  cheer. 
Out  of  the  sorrows  that  make  the  face  sad  will 
come  ultimate  joy.  This  affliction  is  working 
out  a  far  more  exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of 
glory.  And  the  day  is  not  distant  when  God 
will  wipe  tears  from  off  all  faces. 
188 


The  King^s  word  hath  power. 

Eccl.  via.  4  (R.  v.). 

WHEN  our  King  speaks  it  is  done.  He  spoke 
in  creation,  and  power  went  with  His  word  to 
call  all  things  out  of  nothing.  He  spoke  in  His 
earthly  ministry,  and  power  acconnpanied  every 
word,  in  giving  eyes  to  the  blind  and  life  to  the 
dead.  He  spoke,  and  the  paralyzed  had  power 
to  walk.  He  spoke,  and  the  winds  dropped, 
whilst  the  tumultuous  waves  were  hushed  to  rest. 
He  spoke,  and  men  knew  their  sins  forgiven,  to 
be  remembered  against  them  no  more  forever. 
He  spoke,  and  the  dying  thief  passed  into  Para- 
dise. 

Whatever  He  bids  you  do  by  His  word,  be 
sure  that  He  will  enable  you  to  do  it  by  His 
power.  He  works  in  us  to  will  and  to  work  of 
His  good  pleasure ;  that  is,  He  never  directs  us 
in  any  path  of  obedience  or  service  without  fur- 
nishing a  sufficient  supply  of  grace.  Does  He 
bid  you  renounce  some  evil  habit  ?  The  power 
to  renounce  it  awaits  you.  Claim  it.  Does  He 
bid  you  walk  on  the  water  ?  The  power  by 
which  to  walk  only  waits  for  you  to  claim  it. 
Does  He  bid  you  perform  irksome  duty?  There 
is  such  transforming  power  issuing  from  Him  as 
to  make  duty  a  delight,  if  only  you  will  avail 
yourself  of  it.  Whenever  you  are  called  to  stand 
up  to  speak  the  word  of  your  King,  be  sure  to 
seek  and  obtain  the  power — that  shall  prove 
your  best  credential.  Take  the  power  of  the 
King  with  you :  it  is  His  signet-ring,  by  which 
men  will  be  convinced  that  you  have  been  en- 
trusted with  His  word. 

"  Sustain  me,  that  with  Thee  I  walk  these  waves 
Resisting! — Breathe  me  upward,  Thou  in  me 
Aspiring,  Who  art  the  Way,  the  Truth,  the  Life— 
That  no  Truth  henceforth  seem  indifferent, 
No  Way  to  Truth  laborious,  and  no  Life, 
Not  even  this  life  I  live,  intolerable  !  " 

189 


The  race  in  not  to  the  swift,  nor  the  battle  to  the 
strong.  Eccl.  ix.  ii. 

THIS  is  true  in  another  sense  than  the 
Preacher  meant.  His  conclusion  was  that  time 
and  chance  happen  to  all  alike  in  the  race  and 
battle  of  life.  To  us  it  means  that  God  comes  to 
those  who  are  not  swift,  but,  like  Mephibosheth, 
lame  on  both  feet,  and  gives  them  the  prize  which 
they  could  not  win ;  that  He  bends  over  those 
who  are  not  strong,  and  gives  them  the  victory 
which  they  could  not  procure.  The  Gospel  is 
full  of  promise  to  younger  sons,  bruised  reeds, 
lame  and  helpless  souls,  to  babes  and  sucklings, 
to  those  that  have  no  might ;  whilst  it  hides  its 
secrets  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and  withholds 
its  rewards  from  the  swift  and  strong. 

You  are  not  swift.  Long  ago  the  spring  was 
taken  from  your  life,  and  the  elasticity  from 
your  feet.  For  many  years  you  have  lain  by  the 
Beautiful  Gate,  seeing  the  happy  souls  pass  to 
the  inner  shrine,  and  coming  out  entranced. 
You  have  been  content  to  live  on  their  alms. 
But  better  things  are  in  store.  He  who  knows 
your  case  will  even  now  give  you  perfect  sound- 
ness. Though  you  cannot  win  the  prize  of  your 
high  calling  by  running,  it  shall  be  yours  by  re- 
ceiving and  taking.  It  is  a  gift;  and  though 
you  have  not  legs  you  have  surely  hands. 

You  are  not  strong.  But  it  is  well.  Many  of 
us  are  too  strong  for  God.  He  has  to  weaken 
us  by  touching  the  sinew  of  our  thigh.  When 
Jacob  went  from  fighting  to  clinging,  he  became 
a  prince  with  God.  Isaiah  left  it  on  record  that 
God  gives  power  to  the  faint,  and  increases 
might  to  those  who  have  no  power.  And  the 
great  Apostle  of  the  Gentiles  gloried  in  his  in- 
firmities, because  he  had  discovered  that  when  he 
was  weak  then  he  was  strong,  since  the  power  of 
Christ  was  only  perfected  in  weakness. 
190 


If  one  do  not  whet  the  edge,  then  must  he  put 
to  more  strength.  Ecd.  x.  lo. 

IF  this  is  true,  as  we  know  it  is,  may  we  not 
often  use  it  as  an  appeal  to  God  ?  There  are 
times  with  all  who  work  for  God,  when  they  are 
blunt,  through  much  usage.  The  brain  is  blunt, 
and  cannot  think.  The  heart  is  blunt,  and  can- 
not feel.  The  voice  is  blunt,  and  has  lost  its 
ringing  note.  How  often  the  evangelist,  toward 
the  end  of  a  series  of  services,  feels  blunt  ! 
Sometimes  also  there  are  private  sorrows,  of 
which  we  cannot  speak,  which  take  off  the  edge. 
At  all  such  times  let  us  turn  to  God  and  say, 
"Put  in  more  strength.  Let  Thy  power  be 
magnified  in  my  weakness.  Give  more  grace,  so 
that  Thy  work  shall  not  suffer."  I  suppose  Paul 
meant  this  when  he  said  that  he  gloried  in  infirm- 
ities, that  the  power  of  Christ  might  rest  upon 
him.  Surely  more  work  is  done  by  a  blunt  edge 
and  Divine  power,  than  by  a  sharp  edge  and  little 
power. 

This,  however,  does  not  justify  us  in  seeking  to 
be  blunt.  And  when  we  are  conscious  that  the 
edge  is  going  off,  it  becomes  us  to  seek  a  fresh 
whetting.  The  time  is  not  lost  in  the  harvest- 
field  when  the  reapers  whet  their  scythes  with 
musical  tinkle.  A  day  in  the  country  or  a  week 
by  the  seaside  are  very  pleasant  whetstones. 
Solomon  says  that  friendship,  the  face  of  a  friend, 
will  sharpen  a  blunt  edge  ;  and  full  often  we  have 
been  sharpened  and  quickened  by  seasons  of  holy 
fellowship.  But  after  all,  nothing  gives  us  such 
a  keen  edge  as  the  devotional  perusal  of  the 
Divine  Word.  Let  us  appropriate  the  words  of 
the  prophet,  and  each  one  ask  to  be  made  a  new 
sharp  threshing-instrument  having  teeth,  that 
we  may  thresh  the  mountains,  and  make  them 
small,  and  give  our  God  as  little  anxiety  as  pos- 
eible. 

1»1 


In  the  morning  sow  thy  seed,  and  in  the  even- 
ing withhold  not  thine  hand.  Ecd.  xi.  6. 

WE  are  all  tempted  to  look  too  much  to  the 
winds  and  clouds.  We  study  the  faces  of  people, 
their  moods  and  circumstances,  and  say,  <'  It  is 
not  a  favorable  time  to  approach  them  about  their 
souls.  He  does  not  look  to  be  a  likely  case,  or 
in  a  likely  mood."  But  how  do  we  know?  If 
we  are  always  waiting  for  favoring  conditions, 
we  shall  resemble  the  farmer  who  is  ever  looking 
out  for  perfect  weather,  and  lets  the  whole 
autumn  pass  without  one  handful  of  grain  reach- 
ing the  furrows ;  or  who  is  always  studying  the 
clouds,  seeking  for  a  spell  of  hot  summer 
weather ;  and  presently  the  chance  is  gone,  and 
the  crop  lost. 

In  fact,  we  can  never  tell  what  God  is  doing 
in  the  secrets  of  the  heart.  He  may  have  been 
prosecuting  His  deep  and  wise  designs  with  the 
souls  that  appear  most  untoward  and  unprepos- 
sessing. He  may  have  led  them  to  such  a  point 
that  they  are  most  eagerly  yearning  for  the  hand 
to  lead  them  into  the  light.  The  eunuch  in  his 
chariot,  might  not,  from  a  distance,  have  seemed 
specially  ripe  for  the  Christian  evangelist;  but, 
on  coming  near,  he  was  discovered  to  be  an  en- 
quirer. Saul  of  Tarsus  was  the  least  likely  man 
in  all  Palestine  to  be  a  Christian ;  but  God  had 
been  at  work  with  him.  Let  us  dare  then  to 
trust  God,  not  looking  for  winds  or  sunshine,  but 
scattering  everywhere  the  precious  seed  of  the 
Gospel. 

"  Say  not,  the  struggle  naught  availeth. 
The  labor  and  the  wounds  are  vain ; 
The  enemy  faints  not,  nor  faileth, 

And  as  things  have  been  things  remain. 

"  For  while  the  tired  waves,  vainly  breaking, 
Seem  here  no  painful  inch  to  gain, 
Far  back,  through  creeks  and  inlets  making, 
Comes  silent,  flooding  in,  the  main." 

192 


The    Preacher    sought  to  find    out   acceptable 
words.  Eccl.  xii.  lo. 

THE  wise  preacher  or  teacher  is  not  content 
with  merely  teaching  the  people  knowledge,  he 
will  ponder  and  seek  out  and  set  in  order  the  les- 
sons of  Divine  wisdom;  and  when  these  are 
settled,  he  will  go  on  to  find  out  acceptable 
words.  We  must  be  careful  to  secure  the  **  ap- 
ples of  gold,"  and  no  less  careful  to  place  them 
in  the  **  pictures  of  silver."  Not  that  we  are  to 
make  beauty  of  language  an  object  in  itself;  but 
having  conceived  high  and  holy  thoughts  we 
should  give  them  a  worthy  expression,  so  that 
the  Royal  word  may  ride  forth  in  a  becoming 
equipage.  It  is  unfit  that  the  vessels  of  the  sanc- 
tuary should  be  carried  only  in  badger  skins; 
their  first  covering  at  least  must  be  *'  all  of  blue." 
If  we  are  stewards  in  God's  household  to  give 
his  children  food,  let  us  serve  it  up  suitably. 
The  linen  should  be  clean,  and  the  table  gar- 
nished. 

Remember,  however,  that  the  words  of  the 
wise  are  as  goads  and  nails.  They  must  have 
points,  sometimes  to  prick  to  duty,  at  other 
times  to  stick  fast  in  the  memory.  In  every  ser- 
mon or  lesson  there  should  be  points.  To  arrest 
and  compel  attention  is  more  important  than  to 
please  the  ear.  Do  not  refine  and  beautify  it  to 
such  an  extent,  that  there  may  be  nothing  left  to 
stir  the  conscience  and  lacerate  the  heart. 

Words  that  best  fit  the  enunciation  of  God's 
truth  are  given  from  the  One  Shepherd.  We 
are  enriched  by  Him,  not  only  in  all  knowledge 
but  in  all  utterance.  He  who  made  the  mouth 
can  put  His  words  into  the  mouth.  Ask  Him  to 
speak  to  you,  that  you  may  speak  in  accents  bor- 
rowed from  His  tone  ;  for  it  is  not  ye  that  speak, 
but  the  Spirit  of  your  Father  that  speaketh  la 
you. 

198 


The  King  hath  brought  me  into  His  chambers. 

Cant.  i.  4, 

WE  cannot  force  an  entrance  into  the  inner 
chambers  of  the  love  of  God.  They  remind  one 
of  the  apartments  which  are  reserved  for  the  per- 
sonal use  of  the  sovereign,  and  are  private  from 
the  foot  of  strangers.  All  the  world  is  welcome 
to  the  State  apartments ;  but  only  the  favored 
few  to  the  inner  sanctuary.  So  it  is  with  the 
love  of  God.  It  is  open  to  all  the  world ;  but  its 
secret  is  hidden  from  the  wise  and  prudent,  and 
revealed  to  babes. 

It  is  pleasant  to  think  of  the  chambers  of  the 
King  opening  one  from  the  other  in  a  long  and 
glorious  succession,  and  to  imagine  each  in- 
scribed with  its  text  and  adorned  with  character- 
istic emblems.  The  Chamber  of  Regeneration 
leading  to  Assurance  ;  and  this  to  Consecration  ; 
and  this  to  the  Enduement  of  the  Holy  Spirit ; 
and  this  to  the  Quiet  Heart ;  and  this  to  a  Life 
of  Victory;  and  this  to  Abiding  Fellowship. 
Each  is  a  distinct  phase  of  the  Christian  life ; 
and  from  one  to  another  the  King  leads  the  obe- 
dient and  loving  disciple.  At  each  advance  the 
chambers  become  more  magnificent  and  delight- 
ful, until  the  last  one  opens  out  upon  a  terrace 
which  looks  across  the  brief  space  to  the  City  of 
God. 

Will  you  let  the  King  do  this?  Then  you 
must  begin  by  enthroning  Him  in  your  heart  and 
obeying  Him  in  your  life.  You  must  keep  His 
words,  that  He  may  manifest  Himself  unto  you, 
as  He  does  not  unto  the  world.  Then  indeed 
we  shall  be  glad,  and  rejoice,  and  make  mention 
of  His  love.  What  if  the  beauty  of  our  surround- 
ings makes  us  cry  out  that  we  are  black  as  the 
tents  of  Kedar  !  He  knew  it  all  before,  and  will 
not  love  us  less ;  nay.  He  will  array  us  in  His 
own  comeliness. 

194 


The  voice  of  my  Beloved. 

Cant.  it.  8. 

THERE  are  times  when  winter  rules  within, 
and  the  atmosphere  is  full  of  rain,  and  the  birds 
are  mute.  It  does  not  necessarily  argue  that  we 
have  backslidden;  only  that  the  rich,  emotional 
life  has  for  a  little  died  down,  as  the  sap  sinks  to 
the  earth  during  the  winter's  pause. 

The  first  symptom  of  returning  joy  is  the  voice 
of  the  Beloved  Master.  We  do  not  seek  Him, 
but  He  us.  We  do  not  call,  but  He  calls.  The 
voice  of  spring  is  heard  sounding  through  our 
soul.  The  sweet,  clear,  tender  notes  of  the  Sav- 
iour ring  melodiously  around  us,  and  as  we  hear 
them  we  know  that  our  winter  is  past,  the  rain 
is  over  and  gone,  and  the  flowers  and  birds  are 
at  hand. 

Rise  up,  my  love  !  Rise  up  from  lethargy  and 
sloth ;  from  the  low  levels  on  which  you  have 
lived ;  from  the  earth  with  its  attractions,  and 
the  grave  with  its  fetters.  And  as  the  command 
issues  from  His  lips.  He  gives  rising  grace. 
Come  away,  He  cries.  There  is  richer  life  and 
wider  upon  the  mountains.  Let  us  climb  the 
heights  that  beckon  us.  The  voice  of  Christ  is 
constantly  summoning  us  to  fuller  experiences, 
to  leave  what  is  behind  and  below,  to  press  up 
and  on,  so  that  we  may  know  Him  and  the 
power  of  His  resurrection. 

How  appropriate  these  words  are  as  we  may 
conceive  of  them  being  spoken  to  the  expectant 
Church  !  After  centuries  of  waiting  she  shall 
hear  the  archangel's  trump,  and  it  will  be  the 
call  of  her  Beloved  to  rise  up  and  come  away. 
Then  her  winter  will  be  past  forever;  the  un- 
withering  flowers  will  appear;  the  time  of  sing- 
ing will  have  come;  and  the  voice  of  the  turtle- 
dove, significant  of  aff"ection,  will  be  heard 
throughout  Emmanuel's  Land. 
195 


I  sought  Him,  but  I  found  Him  not. 

Cant,  Hi.  i. 

GOD  lets  us  seek,  hiding  Himself  to  draw  us 
after  Him.  How  much  our  race  owes  to  His 
hidings  !  He  has  hidden  pearls  in  the  ocean, 
jewels  in  the  rocks,  coal  in  the  earth,  fish  in  the 
deep.  By  all  these  methods  He  has  drawn  men 
forth  from  lethargy  and  inaction,  to  strenuous 
and  vigorous  lives ;  so  that  the  gains  of  their  toil 
have  consisted  not  only  in  the  treasures  they 
have  obtained,  but  in  the  developed  faculties 
which  have  come  to  them  in  the  course  of  their 
search. 

Is  it  not  so  in  the  spiritual  life  ?  Our  Lord 
withdraws  Himself,  not  in  anger  or  disappoint- 
ment, but  that  we  may  be  sensible  of  not  having 
attained,  of  not  being  already  perfect,  and  that 
we  may  follow  on  to  know  the  Lord,  and  to  ap- 
prehend something  more  of  that  for  which  we 
were  apprehended.  Do  not  be  disappointed,  O 
Christian  soul,  if  some  time  you  should  cease  to 
feel  the  familiar  delight  in  certain  hymns,  serv- 
ices, books,  or  teachers.  Thy  Master  has  with- 
drawn Himself  from  these ;  but  thou  wilt  find 
Him  further  on.  Never  rest  till  you  have  dis- 
covered Him  in  some  deeper  revelation.  The 
watchmen  that  go  about  the  city,  and  who  are 
probably  messengers  of  Divine  truths,  may  not 
help  you  in  your  quest;  but  the  Holy  Spirit 
waits  to  lead  you  into  all  truth.  Open  your 
heart  to  Him.  It  is  but  a  little  time,  and  as  you 
pass  from  all  human  teachers  you  will  find  Him 
whom  you  love,  or  perhaps  be  found  of  Him. 
Then  hold  Him,  or  better,  be  held  by  Him.  It 
is  a  sweet  motto,  **  Teneo  et  tefieor^^ — '*  I  hold, 
and  am  held." 

"  And  not  by  eastern  windows  only, 

When  daylight  comes,  comes  in  the  light; 
In  front,  the  sun  climbs  slow,  how  slowly, 
But  westward,  look,  the  land  is  bright." 
186 


Awake,  O  710 rth  wind ;  and  co7ne,  thou  south; 
blow  tipon  my  garden.  Cant.  iv.  jb. 

THE  garden  of  the  heart  is  like  one  of  those 
old-fashioned  gardens,  surrounded  by  high  brick 
walls,  prepared  for  fruit-trees.  I  have  one  in  my 
eye  as  I  write,  on  the  south  wall  of  which  old 
apple-trees  have  bloomed  and  fruited  for  genera- 
tions. The  garden  is  filled  with  all  manner  of 
spices,  *'  spikenard  and  saffron,  calamus  and  cin- 
namon, and  with  all  trees  of  frankincense." 
Sometimes,  however,  the  spices  hang  heavily  upon 
the  air.  They  are  present,  but  hardly  dis- 
cernible to  the  quickest  sense.  Then  the  wind  is 
needed  to  blow  through  the  garden  path,  that  the 
spices  may  flow  out  and  pass  beyond  the  barriers 
to  the  passers-by. 

How  often  it  has  happened  in  the  history  of 
the  children  of  God,  that  those  who  have  known 
them  have  never  realized  the  intrinsic  excellence 
and  loveliness  of  their  characters  until  the  north 
wind  of  sorrow  and  pain  has  broken  with  bluster- 
ing force  upon  them.  Then  suddenly  spices  of 
rarest  odor  have  exhaled  and  been  carried  afar. 
How  the  delicate  trees  dread  the  north  wind  ! 
What  a  tremor  goes  through  the  crowded  garden 
walks  when  they  hear  the  husbandman  calling  to 
the  north  wind  to  awake  !  We  all  choose  the 
south  wind.  But  remember  that  the  Euroclydon 
that  swept  down  the  ravines  of  Crete  upon  the 
Alexandrian  corn-ship  brought  out  spices  which 
had  slumbered  unknown  in  the  heart  of  the  great 
apostle.  His  courage !  His  patience !  His 
power  of  inspiring  hope  amid  despair,  and  break- 
ing bread  with  thanksgiving  !  Ah,  north  wind, 
thy  ministry  has  been  of  incalculable  worth  to  all 
of  us.  We  shiver  before  thy  searching  power, 
but  the  spices  will  repay.  A  vane  in  Leicester- 
shire is  inscribed  with  God  is  Love.  He  is  so, 
from  whatever  quarter  the  wind  blows, 
1»7 


IV/ia^  is  thy  beloved  more  than  another  beloved^ 
that  thou  dost  so  adjure  us  ?       Cant.  v.  g  (r.  v.). 

THE  daughters  of  Jerusalem,  each  of  whom 
had  her  beloved,  could  not  understand  the  urgency 
of  this  maiden  who  had  lost  her  beloved.  Her 
anguish  at  her  loss  was  so  extreme,  her  heart- 
sickness  was  so  agonizing,  her  frenzy  so  bewilder- 
ing, that  they  were  startled  into  feeling  that  he  of 
whom  she  was  bereft  was  no  common  lover. 
There  had  been  times  when  each  of  them  had 
been  temporarily  forlorn  ;  but  they  knew  that 
they  had  never  suffered  like  this  !  The  greatness 
of  her  pain  was  the  mirror  in  which  they  caught 
a  glimpse  of  the  ineffable  beauty  of  the  Bride- 
groom. 

Speak  of  Christ,  so  that  men  and  women 
around  may  be  constrained  to  cry,  **Your  Be- 
loved excels  our  beloveds.  We  cannot  speak  of 
them  as  thou  dost  of  Him.  To  gain  them  does 
not  fill  us  with  the  same  ecstasy,  or  to  lose  them 
with  the  same  woe." 

What  are  the  beloveds  that  men  seek  after? 
There  is  the  beloved  of  worldly  success,  of  human 
adulation  and  applause,  of  art,  science,  and  war. 
They  intoxicate  their  admirers,  but  fail  to  satisfy. 
Who  can  say  of  them  that  they  are  chief,  and  out- 
shine the  gold  of  Ophir,  beryl,  sapphires,  ivory, 
and  cedar,  the  rarest  products  of  earth,  as 
synonyms  for  priceless  worth?  But  all  these 
gathered  together  are  poor  and  unworthy  emblems 
of  the  peerless  beauty  of  Emmanuel.  White  in 
purity,  ruddy  with  the  bloodstain,  His  bushy 
locks  emblematical  of  immortal  youth.  His  eyes 
like  water- brooks  reflecting  the  deep  azure  of  the 
sky  and  telling  of  eternal  love.  Ransack  eartli 
for  metaphors,  and  they  fall  short  of  the  truth. 
Words  fail  to  express  His  beauty.  His  grace,  His 
loveliness :  let  us  try  to  reflect  His  glory. 
198 


I  am  my  Beloveifs^  and  my  Beloved  is  mine. 

Cant,  vi,  j. 

TO  get  the  full  significance  of  this  precious 
sentence  we  should  compare  it  with  chap.  ii.  i6. 
Remark  their  parallelism,  and  their  contrast. 

"  My  Beloved  is  mine,  and  I  am  His. 
He  feedeth  His  flock  among  the  lilies  "  (r.  v.). 

And  this  — 

"  I  am  my  Beloved's,  and  my  Beloved  is  mine. 
He  feedeth  His  flock  among  the  lilies  "  (r.  v.). 

In  the  first  of  these  couplets  the  Spouse  lays 
the  first  emphasis  on  her  hold  of  the  Beloved ; 
only  secondarily  does  she  congratulate  herself 
that  she  is  his.  But  in  the  second  couplet  her 
chief  thought  is  that  she  belongs  to  him. 

In  the  earlier  stages  of  Christian  life,  we  think 
most  of  what  we  have  in  Christ ;  afterward  we 
love  to  dwell  on  His  possession  of  us.  You  are 
His  estate,  for  Him  to  cultivate  and  rear  success- 
ive crops  for  His  praise  and  glory.  You  are  His 
jewel,  to  obtain  which  He  renounced  all,  and  on 
which  He  will  expend  infinite  care,  cutting  your 
facets,  and  polishing  you  to  shine  brightly  in  His 
light.  You  are  His  house  in  which  He  can 
dwell,  opening  out  unexpected  apartments  and 
passages.  You  are  a  member  of  His  body, 
through  which  He  will  fulfill  His  holy  purpose. 
You  are  His  bride,  to  win  whom  He  came  from 
afar.  You  are  owned,  possessed,  inhabited, 
loved,  with  a  peculiar  personal  affection.  As 
Keble  says:  "Thou  art  thy  Saviour's  darling; 
doubt  no  more." 

"  As  the  bridegroom  to  his  chosen, 
As  the  king  unto  his  realm, 
As  the  keep  unto  the  castle, 
As  the  pilot  to  the  helm, 

So,  Lord,  art  Thou  to  me." 

199 


I  am  my  Beloved*  s,  and  His  desire  is  toward  me. 

Cant.  vii.  so. 

THIS  is  the  thankful  recognition  of  the  Bride. 
She  knows  that  she  belongs  to,  that  she  is  loved 
by,  the  Bridegroom — that  His  desire  is  turned 
toward  her  with  ineffable  longing. 

Dear  soul,  do  you  realize  the  desire  of  your 
Beloved  toward  you  ?  You  love  Him ;  but  He 
loves  you  ever  so  much  more.  You  desire  Him  ; 
but  His  desire  toward  you  is  as  much  greater 
than  yours  toward  Him,  as  sunlight  is  more  bril- 
liant than  moonlight.  Know  ye  not,  says  James, 
that  the  Spirit  which  He  has  caused  to  dwell  in 
us  longeth  even  to  envy  ?  Jesus  desires  all  our 
love,  all  our  energy,  all  our  possessions,  that  we 
should  be  only,  always,  all  for  Him.  How  have 
we  responded  to  His  great  desire  ?  Alas,  our  re- 
sponse has  been  very  uncertain  and  unsatis- 
factory. Sometimes  we  have  felt  a  pure  flame  of 
answering  affection ;  but  it  has  soon  been  ob- 
scured with  clouds  of  smoke,  or  has  died  down 
for  want  of  oil. 

The  Lord  desires  more  of  our  time,  that  we 
should  withdraw  ourselves  from  the  busy  rush  of 
the  world  and  the  absorbing  interests  of  life,  in 
order  to  allow  Him  to  commune  with  us.  He 
desires  more  of  our  affection,  that  He  may  teach 
us  how  to  respond  to  His  love.  He  desires  to 
teach  us  how  to  share  His  riches,  as  His  joint- 
heirs;  how  to  sit  with  Him  in  heavenly  places  ; 
how  to  work  in  the  energy  of  His  Spirit.  Let  us 
yield  ourselves  to  His  desires,  and  allow  Him  to 
effect  in  us  and  for  us  all  He  desires  for  us,  so 
that  he  may  give  Him  delight.  *'  As  the  bride- 
groom rejoiceth  over  the  bride,  so  shall  thy  God 
rejoice  over  thee."  If,  as  Zephaniah  says.  He  is 
silent  in  His  love,  because  His  love  is  too  strong 
for  speech,  we  may  yield  ourselves  to  it  without 
misgiving. 

200 


Who  is  this  that  comcih  up  from  the  wilderness ^ 
leanifig  upon  her  Beloved  ?  Cant.  viU.  j-. 

STANDING  on  the  mountainous  plateau  with 
which  Judea  passes  into  the  desert,  the  daughters 
of  Jerusalem  behold  the  Spouse,  coming  slowly 
up  from  the  wilderness,  leaning  hard  upon  her 
Beloved ;  and  in  this  we  have  an  emblem  of  the 
Church,  and  of  each  faithful  soul.  The  wilder- 
ness can  well  be  taken  as  an  emblem  of  the  ex- 
perience of  believers,  who  are  suffered  to  hunger 
and  thirst,  exposed  to  be  smitten  by  the  sun  of 
temptation,  and  pacing  wearily  over  the  lowlands 
of  a  somewhat  arduous  and  monotonous  exist- 
ence. 

But  the  wilderness-life  is  not  destined  to  be 
our  perpetual  experience.  We  are  bidden  to 
come  up  from  it.  Life  is  meant  to  be  an  unceas- 
ing ascent  from  strength  to  strength  until  we 
stand  in  Zion  before  God.  Is  your  path  trying 
and  perilous  ?  Does  it  seem  as  though  you  will 
never  gain  the  heights  that  rear  themselves  before 
your  gaze?  Do  you  feel  prepared,  like  Hagar, 
to  yield  to  despair  and  death?  See,  there  is 
One  that  goes  beside.  Turn  to  regard  Him. 
His  hands  are  as  though  they  had  been  pierced. 
He  is  your  Beloved ;  lean  on  Him.  He  gives 
you  His  arm  to  rest  upon,  and  He  will  sustain 
you  when  heart  and  flesh  fail.  The  wilderness 
will  bring  out  a  tenderness,  an  all-sufficiency,  a 
readiness  of  resource,  on  His  part,  which  you 
would  never  have  guessed  unless  your  exigencies 
had  become  imperative.  Be  sure  of  this,  lean 
hard,  and  believe  that 

"  He  will  bring  thee  where  the  fountains 
Fresh  and  full  spring  forth  above, 
Still  throughout  the  endless  ages 
Serving  Him  with  perfect  love." 


201 


Prmceton  Theoloqical  Seminary  Libraries      ! 

1    1012  01276  7762     ' 


:illi|ii 


i,i  ii:,^h!? 


:lil|ip!|l!l 


liiliiiiiiii:" 

■iiij ',  1  ill!' :H;:i!:n^ 


!!l!! 


II 


iliii 


iliii>iii<atiuii>itiiitli!iliil 


